It's a market that is looking at
reasonable growth.
>> People feel like they have to put money
to work.
>> Stay diversified. You stay disciplined
and you get rewarded.
>> The market could get gut checked here
from momentum unwind.
>> Were it not for AI, this would be a
very, very different story.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Boomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Tuesday, crude bounces, the US
striking Iranian vessels through the
straight of former as the White House is
calling it defensive, indicating talks
are progressing well. It's leaving
investors focused on a resolution and
pushing equity futures higher following
the long weekend.
>> So, what do we take away from this given
the fact that there have been actual
strikes yet the same time we've been
still talking about a ceasefire? It's
that people want to believe that this
has to resolve and they're taking solace
in the idea that it isn't escalating
even though there have been strikes
kinetic warfare. That said, when you
take a look at the fine print, still so
many questions, whether it's the
nuclear, whether what's going to being
agreed upon, whether the hard points are
even being discussed and what it means
to reopen the straight with some
payment, not necessarily a toll, but
some payment that has to do with
compensating Iran for safe passageways
through the straight from
>> Let's just park the price action just
for a moment. The contradiction for
everyone here I think is pretty clear.
Talks are progressing well. Apparently
Iran was laying mines but we're
reopening the straight off. Can you make
sense of all of that this morning?
>> It's absolute confusion. It's also
confusing when you hear the scentcom
spokesperson in a number of statements
to a number of news outlets basically
say that this was defensive in nature.
We want to hold on to the ongoing
ceasefire. They are basically holding on
to this ceasefire by a thread. And right
now when you see what is going on going
after the boats because the Iranians
were laying mines and the Iranians going
after F-35s, it doesn't sound like
there's a ceasefire in place between
Tyrron and Washington.
>> The market had already moved on and the
market is itching to move on this
Tuesday morning.
>> There is some validity to this and I'll
back the market for a hot second saying
that there were a couple of tankers that
got through the trade of moves for the
first time since February. You've seen a
couple more trickle out. The fact that
there hasn't been an escalation is
making people have faith that both sides
do not want to escalate. That they see
it as more of a problem if there is a
kinetic escalation. And people are
looking at this and saying feasibly you
have to have some sort of reopening at
some point in the next couple of weeks.
And that seems to be the excitement that
people have. Is it clinging to too much
hope? Yes. But that I think is what
people are looking at.
>> Alltime highs we're on track for this
morning. Equity futures a catchup trade
here up by 0.6% on the S&P. On the
NASDAQ up by one full percentage point.
Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
Steve chevron of federated as Wall
Street looks past renewed homeless
hostility. Sarah Kun of Cleo Capital as
the open AI CEO downplays the threat of
a jobs apocalypse and so on desire
Franklin as Kevin Walsh vows to lead an
independent Federal Reserve. We begin
this hour with the US launching fresh
strikes on Iranian targets in the
straight of Ms. Bloomber's Tyler Kendall
joins us now from Washington. Tyler,
you've got to explain where we are in
these talks. Just where are we? Well,
John, at this point, it felt like that
we ultimately had gotten uh uh signs of
diplomatic progress over the weekend.
You heard President Trump touting that
they had good conversations towards a
deal, but it does appear that the
renewed fighting is now just
underscoring how fragile this situation
remains. Secretary of State Marco Rubio
speaking with reporters uh overnight
said that there have been multiple
conversations quote back and forth but
that ultimately President Trump is only
going to agree to a good deal or no deal
at all because this comes as you have
been outlining on what appears to be
renewed fighting between the two sides
as Sentcom confirms that it conducted
defensive military strikes near Iran's
largest naval base hitting multiple
targets including military launch sites
as well as these boats that were laying
mines. And in response, we saw Iran
engage US drones and an F-35 fighter jet
that entered into its airspace and is
now threatening that we could see
further retaliation for what it says was
a US violation of the ceasefire. That of
course is raising the regional risk for
our partners and our allies in the
region that have been trying to urge
this White House to reach a deal. We'll
have to see how this ultimately develops
from here because the US had been
putting forward that we could be getting
closer towards a memorandum of
understanding. Appears that this would
be a phased agreement where the
ceasefire is extended, the straight of
removes could be reopened, the US lifts
its naval blockade, but then we see
those negotiations on Iran's nuclear
program ultimately delayed. So, John, at
this point, that's raising concerns even
from some Republicans here in Washington
that the White House could agree to this
delayed deal for any sort of curbs when
it comes to Iran's nuclear program and
what happens to that stockpile of
highlyenriched uranium.
>> Kendall with the latest in the nation's
capital. Tyler, thank you. Appreciate
it. Here's the view on Wall Street this
morning. Steve Chevron Federated raising
its year-end price target on the S&P to
8K, writing both sides of the Iran
conflict need the war to end. When that
happens, it will provide a favorable
disinflationary retail wind and the
Walsh Fed will likely begin a new rate
cutting cycle. Steve joins us now for
more. Steve, good morning, sir. It's
good to see you. How important has this
phrase been for you and the team? If it
can't happen, it won't.
>> It's probably been the most successful
trade over the last 20 years. Right. If
if the global financial system is on the
verge of collapse this weekend, it
probably won't happen. If a deadly virus
is going to keep us locked in our homes
indefinitely, it probably won't happen.
Um, I think this is another one of those
scenarios. The world can't allow the
straight of war moves to be closed
indefinitely. China can't afford that.
Asia can't afford it. Europe certainly
can't afford it. Uh, politically, it's
not a winner in the United States. If it
stays closed indefinitely, it threatens
the very existence of the Iranian
regime. And I think that's why the
market is looking towards some deal
here. There's enough noise. Yes, there's
aggressive negotiating to borrow a Star
Wars phrase, but but what you've got
going on here, we think, is the
beginning of the end. And I think what
it belies, though, is the more important
story for the markets, which is that
we're seeing something happening with
earnings that none of us have really
seen in our careers. It's the fastest
margin expansion we've ever seen. And I
think that's what's driving the markets
higher.
>> The ALF for earnings has got better, not
worse. Yes,
>> we've heard a lot of people communicate
that on this program. Has the riskreward
in equities improved given the rally
we've seen and the fact we're now
basically at record highs?
>> Yeah, because well I think it has. So a
couple of things I think one you've
rallied so far but you haven't brought
all the market with you, right? So this
has been a story it was again the
recovery off the lows was very much on
tech and the concerns earlier in the
year about software disruption but also
whether or not you were throwing good
money after bad with the hyperscalers.
you're starting to see cash flows grow
faster than capex which has given you
comfort. The oil sensitive parts of the
market haven't participated yet. And so
if you do get some resolution here,
which we think eventually you will, you
can start to see a rebound in the
consumer, some early cyclicals, maybe
even real estate, although I think
that's probably a little ways off. You
got to get the rate cutting cycle. So we
think there's more market return to
come. We don't think this has played
out.
>> Just to build on what John is talking
about, you could say the mantra, if it
can't happen, it won't, right? The other
mantra is you start to uh get in when
policy makers start to panic and because
everybody has been buying and trying to
avoid some sort of downturn. You have
not seen the pan panic coming from some
of the executive branch. Does that give
you a bit of concern that there isn't
going to be as soon an end to this
conflict?
>> No. I mean it really it really does.
I'll give you a couple reasons why. I
want to get back to this earnings story
really quickly. We're seeing margins
grow at a 9% clip on a year-over-year
basis. That has only happened once, and
it's been between 1995 and 1999. You're
seeing cash flows of the mega of of the
hyperscalers grow faster than their
capex. And this is the biggest capex
boom since the railroad. Those are two
incredibly bullish underlying
fundamentals. That's one. Number two,
we're talking about a Fed that's likely
to stay on pause, right? We're not
talking about some kind of massive rate
hike cycle. And we think actually
they'll cut once you get past the
straight. And so here's the deal with
Trump. And I think we we've seen this
now over 12 years. When he's getting
close to a resolution, you see a little
bit more disarray. You see that last
grasp for that extra bit of leverage.
And that's what the market thinks is
happening here. Why do you think this
worsh Fed so definitely is going to
either remain on hold or start a cutting
cycle when the market seems to a
disagree and b you're seeing inflation
tick up and c you're seeing margins
actually increase at the fastest pace
ever which is raising concerns about are
we even restrictive here.
>> So I think there's there's a couple
reasons why they'll be in that position.
One shelter prices continue to come down
those are on a leg and they're going to
continue to be a disinflationary force.
two energy prices. We haven't seen a big
bleed through into core prices just yet.
If we keep seeing oil prices here, you
will. If this ends, we think you're
going to see that pressure abate. So,
you're not going to have the energy
price read through excuse. And there are
certainly parts of this economy, which
has been our point for the last couple
of years and criticism of the PAL Fed,
whether it's low middle-end consumers,
small businesses, some of the cyclicals
that are rate sensitive that have been
under pressure now for three or four
years. And so we think with those and by
the way the other element here too is
wage pressures have eased right there's
still low unemployment but we're not
seeing the same kind of wage growth that
we saw. There's not that wage price
spiral. So we think look not an
aggressive cutting and is something that
is you know easy policy but a move
closer to a neutral rate which is
probably two or three cuts over the next
18 months is probably where the Fed
would have been absent Iran and we think
that's where it'll go after Iran. Steve
honor, inevitably it will end, you say,
and I'm totally there with you, but
when? Because the Iranians seem to have
a lot more patience, and for them it's
existential in a different way that it
is for this White House, which is also
facing down midterm elections.
>> So, I think from the market's
perspective, it already has. I mean,
that's that was the market's conclusion
a month and a half ago. I'm not saying
that that's right or not, but the market
has moved on as this being a primary
concern, just as it did with Russia
Ukraine in 2022, right? That war is
still ongoing, but it's not driving
markets the way that it was. I think in
terms of the end, look, I I'm of all the
things I pretend to be an expert on, war
is not one of them. Uh but but I I will
say this. I I think one of two things is
going to happen here. Either you are
going to get to a negotiated settlement
or this reescalates in a way that really
threatens the existence of that Iranian
regime. And it's not just the United
States. At some point, other actors in
the world like Europe and Asia just
can't have that straight close. So this
doesn't end well for them if they don't
make a deal. But from a markets pers
perspective at some point do they need
to go back and say it's not over. We
can't look past this.
>> Well I think you certainly would get to
that point faster in Europe. That's one
of the reasons why we moved more
underweight Europe because you know the
poor Europeans after the Russian gas
strategy failed they said gee let's go
to Oman. That hasn't worked out well
either. Um, I I think one of the reasons
that you're seeing US stocks,
particularly growth stocks and EM
stocks, do best is they're the less
they're the least dependent on this,
right? They either have their, you know,
the United States has a domestic energy
supply or you've got a secular story
that is bigger than just an oil price. I
think the more oil sensitive parts of
the economy, Europe, parts of Asia,
they're they've already seen that and
that's why they're lagging. That's one
of the reasons why we don't favor those
parts of the world. See, if we do see a
resolution, does that change? Does that
spark that rotation people are looking
for?
>> I I think it does in the US. I don't
think it does for Europe. If you look at
Europe, what's been interesting is is
that they underperformed when the
conflict raged and then they
underperformed after the ceasefire was
announced as well. And I think part of
that is the stagflationary concerns
there are more real. Um, and I think
they have some other issues. Whereas in
the US, you saw kind of sharp rebounds.
I do think in the US what you'd see if
we got resolution here is value would
reassert itself like it did in the first
part of the year. I think small caps
would reassert themselves like they did
in the first part of the year. So I
think you would see broaden out in the
US but I like em better than I do
develop.
>> Saw some of that last week with the
small caps and the equal weight. Steve,
it's good to see you.
>> Great to be here.
>> Thank you sir. Steve Chevron there of
federated equity futures this morning.
We got a bounce from Friday's close up
by 0.7% on the S&P 500 with an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Yhara has more. Hi Yihara.
>> Good morning John. The ceasefire between
the US and Iran looking fragile this
morning. The US and Israel striking
Iranian vessels in the street of
Hermoose overnight while Iran's
semiofficial Taznim news agency saying
the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps
shot down a US drone and fired at an
American fighter jets in Iranian
airspace.
Russia is advising the US to evacuate
its citizens and diplomats from
Ukraine's capital. The Interfax news
agency says Foreign Minister Sergey
Lavrov told Secretary of State Marco
Rubio that Russia is launching
systematic and consistent strikes on
Keev. And we are seeing Ferrari shares
plunging in Milan after critics blasted
the look of its first fully electric
vehicle, the $640,000
Luche. The four-door 5- seat EV drew
negative reviews from analysts and those
on social media, marking an early
setback for Ferrari's controversial push
into EVs. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yahara, thank you. Thank you very much.
The Luch sending Ferrari enthusiasts to
a very dark place over the weekend. The
irony not lost on anyone.
>> Yeah. Okay. Yes. But I have to say I
admire the uh the craft here and I
admire
>> craft. Okay.
>> Not for $600,000. Please tell us tell us
more.
>> Well, I I mean I'll hold some of my I'm
sure I'm just going to get higher. The
engine the way that they went trying to
create that sort of visceral response
that people have to the engine. Can't
wait for the pharaoh.
>> They went they went and tried to amplify
the noise of the engine even though it
was electric to try to get that sort of
>> grass straws this morning.
>> There is a bucket somewhere and in that
bucket is cappuccinos after lunch
cutting up your spaghetti
>> after 10 ketchup on pizza. Okay. And
that belongs in that bucket.
>> Okay. Wow. Okay. How do you really feel?
>> More on that a little bit later. Up next
on the program, that's the tease.
Renewed fighting with Iran.
These incredible men and women gave
their lives to ensure that the world's
number one state sponsor of terror will
never have a nuclear weapon. Oh, and
they won't. They will never have a
nuclear weapon.
>> Steven Cook of the Council on Foreign
Relations joins us next live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
Live from New York City, welcome back to
the program. A light slate of economic
data for the week ahead, a shortened
trading week. The main event though
later on the week, PC PC data dropping
on Thursday. Look out for that. Read on
the consumer as well at the same time.
earnings from Best Buy, Costco, Dollar
Tree throughout the week. We'll report
on some of those names for you as the
week rolls on. Let's get to the price
action for you. Equity futures, of
course, pricing off Friday's close. A
catch-up trade here state side. Equity
futures positive by 0.7% on the S&P on
the NASDAQ up by one percentage point.
You see this move reflected in the bond
market as well. 2's 1030s, yields
pulling back. 10's now sub450 at 449.
WTI priced off Friday's close still
looks like this down on the session by 4
percentage points versus Friday. If you
price it off yesterday, which is what we
can do with Brent, this price is in
maybe just a touch of escal escalation
overnight. Brent crude up by about 3
percentage points at 988.
There is some escalation. At the same
time, the market on net seems to be
encouraged by the comments over the
weekend. the US coming out and saying
that what it was doing was simply
retaliating and it was defensive strikes
against Iran. Over the weekend, however,
both sides talking about how deal is
getting reached, how Pakistan was
getting involved. Qatar was getting
involved. Interesting to see some of the
other regional allies of the United
States being involved uh in some of
these discussions. Everyone's trying to
get a deal and reopening the trade as we
heard from Marco Rubio is
non-negotiable.
>> Frank Cru this morning higher by 2.9%.
Under Sylvanas this morning, renewed
fighting with Iran.
>> These incredible men and women gave
their lives to ensure that the world's
number one state sponsor of terror will
never have a nuclear weapon. Oh, and
they won't. They will never have a
nuclear weapon. We're having victories
all over the place, more than we've had
in many, many decades.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
US and Iran clashing near the straight
of former even as both sides tout
progress on a peace deal. Steven Kirk of
the Council on Foreign Relations writing
the Iranians will not give up their
right to enrich uranium and they want
management over the straight of former.
Steven joins us now for more. Steven,
welcome to the program. Let's run with
those two points. They want to carry on
and they want the right to enrich
uranium and they want to manage the
strait of Hormuz. How do we strike a
deal with them not backing away from
those two things? Well, that's exactly
the point is that the Iranians have
remained firm that they have a right to
enrich uranium. Uh they have not given
on that at all. Every time the president
has said that the Iranians have agreed
to something along these lines, the
Iranians uh contradict those statements.
It seems quite unlikely that they will
give up uh their right to enrich. There
might be some way to uh fudge a
situation in which um they enrich to
lower levels than before. They enrich,
they move uh enriched uranium outside
the country, but they will maintain that
right to enrich. And then when it comes
to the straight of Hormuz, uh luckily
for them, the president launched a war
on February 28th, and they now have
control or partial control over the
straight of Hormuz uh in a way that they
never could have dreamed of before. It
seems unlikely that they're going to
give it up. They said that there would
be no tolling of the straight of Humuis,
but there certainly would be fees for
service uh for shipping going through
the straight. So, I don't think we're as
close as the president and others would
suggest without either the president
capitulating and or the Iranians
capitulating and it doesn't strike me
that the Iranians are in a position or
willing to capitulate.
>> So, basically, Steve, the same thing
just different branding. Would you
assess that this morning we are still in
a ceasefire?
Well, I think the president and others
would like you to believe that we are
still in a ceasefire, but obviously the
United States and Iran um are on a hair
trigger here. Um the Iranians apparently
threatened US forces and even fired on
US forces in the United States
responded, but this is not a return to
the kind of highintensity combat that we
saw throughout uh throughout March. Um
clearly uh the president is shying away
from a major escalation uh and is
looking for a diplomatic way out but the
Iranians aren't going to let him do
that. Um they have an enormous amount of
patience and they have uh inflicted a
lot of pain on their population and
they're willing to continue to inflict
that pain in order to push the president
into a humiliating capitulation. What
was interesting over the weekend is in
one very long truth social post, the
president talked about Saudi Arabia and
Qatar and how these countries should be
joining the Abraham Accords. Is there
any room for that to wrap up this
conflict? I
>> it seems like the president is aware of
the criticism of the deal that's on the
table, at least what we believe the deal
on the table might be, and is trying to
make it look better by saying that it
will simultaneously come with an
expansion of the Abraham Accords. But
the Saudis have held firm and said that
they will not normalize relations with
Israel until there is an irreversible
path towards a Palestinian state. The
Qataris have said that they will deal
with the Israelis, but only in terms of
resolving the Israeli Palestinian
conflict. So, it doesn't seem to me that
normalization is actually on the table.
The president is just trying to sell
this deal in a way that will make it
more palatable for uh the Republicans in
the Senate and and others. But I don't
think anybody really believes there
normalization is on the table.
>> Stephen, you you said there more
palatable to Republicans. This is what's
interesting to me. Is that part of the
issue? Is it more palatable to Israel?
How much is the break between both
President Trump and the Republicans in
his party as well as Netanyahu in
Israel?
>> Well, it seems that there's a rather
significant break between uh Israel and
the United States. That's to suggest
that the prime minister has come to the
conclusion that there's really nothing
that he can do with regard to the
president's positions on Iran and that
Israel will have to take matters into
its own hands. It has consistently said
that uh whatever ceasefire the United
States or whatever agreement the United
States and Iran uh come up with, Israel
will not necessarily be a party to it.
With regard to the Lebanese front and
his balah, the Israelis have been taking
a lot of fire from his balah. Um,
Hezbollah has been using these
wireguided drones to which the Israelis
had very little respon or defense. Um,
so you're seeing Israeli soldiers killed
day in and day out. Um, the Israelis
just can't give it up there. Um, when it
comes to the Republicans in the Senate,
uh, there's been a lot of criticism
from, uh, from those senators, uh,
because the deal looks like it gives the
Iranians very significant sanctions
relief, the ability to sell oil, which,
uh, removes a significant amount of
leverage when it comes to trying to
press them to end their nuclear program.
>> The more you talk, Stephen, the more I'm
at sort of cognitive dissonance between
the two Steves this morning. We had one
Steve coming on saying if it can't
happen it won't it's not going to be an
issue in a couple of months. Everybody
needs a straight up form who's moves uh
open. Then you come on and you're saying
essentially that it seems like we're
pretty far apart. How do you reconcile
where the market is and where
negotiators are?
>> Well, I I heard your I heard your
interview uh before I came on and I
think this is something that's been
happening in the markets from the very
beginning is that there is a belief that
uh there's some magic formula that's
going to open the straight or for moves.
Um I I was on with you all in April at
the time of the IMF World Bank meetings
and I think there was an expectation
that the straight were to be open in a
matter of days. Um I hated to throw cold
water on that at the time but it it was
going to be months before um this issue
is resolved. Um perhaps the president um
will as a result of these strikes will
uh have instilled a little bit of
flexibility in the Iranians but so far
the Iranians are are hanging quite
tough. We were told that Friday, April
17th, the Friday off that week down in
Washington DC, the straight would
reopen. And then, Lisa, the straight did
not reopen that weekend at all.
>> What's fascinating is we've gotten these
head fakes again and again and again.
And instead of being benomemed by them,
markets welcome each one. Oh, good. It's
nice talk that we're going to get. Let's
uh breathe some life into it. And it's
because of what Steve the first Steve
said, which is if it can't happen, it
won't. And that's been the winning
trade.
>> Steven Kirk of the Council on Foreign
Relations. Stephen, good to see you,
sir. Thank you very much. The pressure
is not coming from the market. That's
for sure. Equities close to alltime
highs and crude backing away.
>> The only issue I have was it with the
idea that if it can't happen, it won't.
Was that what everyone in Washington DC
thought about the straight of Hermoose
being closed for even this long that the
Iranians would never go there. That's
what everyone thought about Russia's
invasion of Ukraine. They're too tied
into Germany, the Europeans, the global
economy that they won't do it. Guess
what? Sometimes in geopolitics, they're
thinking about this a lot differently
than the markets are or even this White
House are. And yet the stock price and
the stock market still goes up and to
the right on every chart I'm looking at
over that period.
>> And people say it's the earnings. People
say, "Look, we've been able to exist
this long." And you know what? We're
going to close our eyes, la, and buy.
I'll be avoid some of the uh the oil
sensitive stocks.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Sarah Kun,
the Cleo Capital, as top CEOs downplay
the risk of an AI jobs apocalypse. Plus,
we'll close our eyes when we look at the
latest car coming out of Italy.
>> I'm going to cappuccino and cut up
spaghetti. 3%
>> from New York. You're watching Bloomberg
TV.
>> Three-day rally on the S&P 500 leading
to an 8-week winning run on the S&P this
morning. Futures bouncing by 3/4 of 1%
on the S&P on the NASDAQ up by more than
one percentage point. Playing catch-up
following the long weekend in the bond
market. Same story. Yields down across
the curve. twos, tens, and 30s. Twos
down six basis points to 4.05%
priced off this move on WTI pricing off
Friday's close. WTI this morning down by
around 5% to 91. Let's call it 92 just
about
>> because people uttered the word
ceasefire once again and everyone got
very excited. There was a sense that we
were getting close. It was coming from
both sides. We have seen an escalation
in some of the violence. That said, it
seems like there is some oil and some
natural gas getting through the street
and there have been increasing reports
of that happening. So, somebody's
saying, "How closed is the street?" It
is, you know, getting a little bit open.
I'm trying to reconcile the two Steves.
I'm not doing a very good job.
>> I hear you. I hear you. But I also hear
a lot of people who are confused. Told
repeatedly over the weekend that we're
closer to a deal that will reopen the
straight of Mr. and at the same time
we're bombing vessels who are laying
mines through the straight off that
we're about to reopen to allow the free
flow of energy in the Middle East. It
feels like the most extreme aver version
of a carrot and stick approach. The talk
sounds like they are moving forward.
Maybe baby steps, but moving forward and
we saw that throughout the entire
weekend. But then what we actually saw
on the ground, not what people are
talking about, what actually what
they're doing is that we are seeing
kinetic warfare back again. Even though
they are saying that this is defensive
in nature and they are clinging on to
this idea this ceasefire can hold. The
only way to make sense of this really is
that Iran's version of this deal, this
free flow of energy through the straight
form is through the path that they want
everyone to go through, which is why the
minds are being laid. Now, if the US has
signed up for that, there's going to be
a lot of questions about the kind of
deal that they're about to sign.
>> Yeah. Which is the reason why
Republicans have really been pushing
back and saying, "Hold on a second. This
allows Iran to have quite a bit of
power. If it's too confusing, it can't
happen." Just look at earnings, John.
Just look at earnings.
>> Earnings are great.
>> They're good.
>> Stocks are up and to the right.
>> So, what's the problem?
>> Alltime highs. There is no problem.
Absolutely.
>> Equity futures this morning up by 0.8%.
No problem in this equity market, that's
for sure. Let's get you some single
names. Some problems in Italy. Some
morning movers. Yahara has more. Hey,
Yahara.
>> Exactly John. And for that reason, we
are seeing Ferrari shares plunging over
in Milan down 6.3% after it unveiled its
first fully electric vehicle. And the
early reviews are pretty brutal for the
$640,000
car. looking through analyst notes, once
saying that it is far worse than he
expected and even calling it a cross
between a Tesla Model 3 and a Honda
Accord EV. Not something you want to
hear if you are the iconic Ferrari
brand. Turning to Dell, those shares are
rising uh some 4% in the pre-market,
headed for a fourth straight day of
gains as investors lean into the AI
infrastructure trade just ahead of its
earnings on Thursday. And part of the
optimism coming from strong results uh
from Lenovo on Friday, fueling bets that
Dell could once again raise its guidance
on strong AI server demand. And we end
on sweet green. Uh the salad maker
shares are up uh 7 and a half% in the
pre-market after jumping uh nearly 9% in
the last session on an upgrade by
analysts over at JP Morgan to overweight
saying the company is uh focusing less
on robotics and more on menu items that
people actually want uh pointing to the
success of their new wraps. That's John
>> Yahara. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thanks
for the update. More from Yahara later
this hour. On a radar this morning, the
US holding firm on its demands for Iran.
The Secretary of State Marco Rubio
saying the country must reopen the
straight of
>> they're going to be open one way or the
other. So they need to be open. What's
happening there is unlawful. It's
illegal. It's unsustainable. People are
holding. It's unacceptable. The streets
need to be open unimpeded without tolls.
And um and obviously that needs to
happen immediately as soon as anything's
agreed.
>> Rubio adding it could take a few days to
reach a deal following fresh US strikes
in southern Iran. Elsewhere, China
announcing new restrictions on overseas
travel for its top AI talent. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg the
professionals for firms including
Alibaba and Deepseek are among those who
now need additional approval before
leaving the country. And finally, the
Goldman boss David Solomon downplaying
AI's impact on employment. Solomon
writing in the New York Times that while
artificial intelligence will create
disruptions, the US will see a revival
in productivity rather than a job
apocalypse. To me, it was interesting
that he wrote this in the first place.
CEOs are trying to get out front of a
message that's getting increasingly
unpalatable to college students and
frankly to rank and file across the
country, talking about how yes, this
could be problematic given some of the
transition that we saw during the
industrial revolution, but then going on
to make the argument that you made last
week, John, which is that overall the
quality of life has improved going back
to the 50s or the 40s or the 30s and
can't we just lean into that and down
the line there'll be more jobs that get
created? whether or not this is true. He
even put a caveat in there. If this
isn't true, we should probably retrain
people pretty quickly, but it gives you
a sense of where the PR push is right
now. Given the fact that all of the
corporate executives are investing in
this, they say this is the future. Now,
they have to get everybody on board.
>> It's interesting that he also wrote this
at a time when he just gave a speech
about this. It doesn't seem like his
house EDM track that he played for the
Wharton Business School students
actually worked because it was dead
silence after he played that at that
commencement speech. What I found
interesting about this opinion piece is
he talks about this potential greater
speed public policy must respond. And
right now what you see is a deregulatory
push in Washington DC when it comes to
AI. And at some point there is going to
have to be a policy response if you're
getting the types of reactions you're
getting at college campuses.
>> It's an interesting essay. There's a
line in it that jumped off the page for
me that when I was a first year banking
analyst, something as simple as making a
graph of a stock's performance used to
take 6 hours. Efficiency. But is this
about increasing efficiency or is it
about replacement? And that's the debate
that everyone's having right now. Cost
is going to be a big factor in all of
that. There's also belief. What do you
believe? What do you believe is true
coming out of the seauite right now?
Particularly after the comments of Bill
Winters of Standard Childhood just a
week ago. Is that the real version of
the actual conversation taking place on
Wall Street? And is this the version
that maybe they'll be pushing in the
months and years to come?
>> Especially as their staff contracts and
as you start to see greater efficiencies
there. Yes, there might be more people
working in data centers to build them
and construct them, but there's not
exactly crossover. And that raises again
the point of retraining and and how you
sort of adapt people's who are
accustomed to certain lifestyles of a
certain paycheck moving elsewhere.
You're going to hear more CEOs talking
about this. The real issue is we just
don't know. And when you talk to a lot
of them, they don't know either, at
least when they're not on a podium.
>> Let's build on this. It is the great
debate on AI unemployment. The OpenAI
CEO Sam Alman downplaying a jobs
apocalypse. The anthropic co-founder
Chris Olar telling the Vatican AI could
replace labor on a quote very large
scale. Sarah Kun the Cleo Capital
writing we can assume that for any
anthropic position open AI will have the
opposite. The reality is somewhere in
the middle. Sarah joins us now for more.
Sarah, welcome to the program. You heard
us talk about that essay from David
Solomon of Goldman Sachs. In that piece,
he talks about two different versions.
either a jobs apocalypse or a massive
increase in efficiency that we all
benefit from. Sarah, how do you see
things playing out?
>> I I think a little bit of both. Um there
will be and we're seeing sort of this
white collar recession. Um at a time
where cost of living is also skyhigh and
so not having a job is a much more
expensive proposition than it used to be
or being undermployed is a much more
expensive proposition than it used to
be. And so there's a lot of nervousness.
Um, and there are a lot of jobs that do
seem like they are trending towards we
need less of them. Um, whether that's
sort of the parallegals, the front-end
web developers of the world, what has
long been thought in sort of this last
generation as a solid kind of entrylevel
white collar job is disappearing.
>> That said, uh, to the point that John
was making earlier, we are seeing uh, a
real transition right now. We are seeing
this sense that people are getting
replaced and this time could be
different and this is what people talk
about that you're replacing true
intelligence rather than say just
functionality when it comes to Excel
spreadsheets or Google searches. Is this
time different when it comes to the
revolution in jobs? I
>> I think that we're replacing the ability
to sort of do things in an automated
way. Um, and we have built a lot of our
industries on having people who sit
there and do that sort of same thinking
again and again and again. I don't think
that AI replaces true intelligence,
creativity, but there's also a lot of
jobs that don't necessarily require that
day-to-day. And so what do we do with
those people especially in an economy
like the US where we don't have you know
singlepayer health care or a a huge sort
of way to to give a social safety net at
scale to working age people.
>> How much are discussions around part of
the white collar workforce going away
justifying the spend that a lot of CEOs
are making on this technology and
frankly justifying the road shows that
the open AIs and anthropics have out
there for IPOs. Those are two super
different questions, right? Because
we've seen a bunch of research that
comes out that says when you put AI into
a company, a lot of times you're not
necessarily getting a tremendous amount
of gain overall. We know that there are
companies um where engineers are being
incentivized by a leaderboard of how
many tokens they use. So, they're
building little vibe coding apps to just
sort of burn tokens. you know, they're
making videos of their mom every day or
something just to kind of burn all of
that to to sort of be managed by that
metric. That's not efficient. That's not
adding efficiency. That's not great
spend. However, those tokens being used
is very very very good for the
anthropics, for the AIS, uh, for for the
open AIs and and even the SpaceX's who
want to IPO based on that story.
>> Sarah, all those three names, you say
it's unlikely all three will find a warm
reception. Who's not going to find a
warm reception when they IPO?
>> I think it depends on timing. I suspect
that there are crazy levels of internal
discussions happening right now of do
you want to be the first? Do you want to
be the middle? Do you want to be the
last? Last to IPO. Generally, that can
be a really tough position um because
people have kind of placed their bets.
The hubris has died down. You start to
get the doubts um and you never know
what's going to happen in the rest of
the world. We live in very interesting
times. Um, but first can be a little
scary too if you mist time it. Um, and
it's hard to time being in the middle
when you don't know when the other two
guys are going. And so I suspect there's
a lot of jockeying behind the scenes uh
to figure out when should we IPO. And I
would not be surprised to see them do it
a little bit kind of on a very short
notice where they file, they go because
the window feels open, the moment feels
right. It's a little bit like taking off
in a spaceship. Sarah, though, when I'm
looking through your notes, it does
sound like you don't really love Open
AI. You're a little bit scathing on this
company. Why? I
>> I think that we've seen that that this
is a bit of a ship of thesis, right?
Most of those initial sounding technical
co-founders are now at Anthropic or they
have in the case of Ilia and some of
those other guys their own uh sort of
neolabs, right? And so the technological
excellence that built this company is no
longer there. Um, we've found out a lot
about Sam Alman over the last few years.
It's not normal to get fired or
attempted to be fired from every single
job you've ever had. Um, and so it's a
little bit concerning when you look at
that track record that we now know and
say, "Yikes, why doesn't anybody like
this guy? Why don't people stick
around?" Those are relevant questions
for the CEO of a publicly traded
company. Except he's also pretty, you
know, indifferent on whether or not he
actually wants to be the CEO of a
publicly traded company. So, if you are
building your hopes around Sam, one, why
do you think this time is different? And
two, um, is he actually going to stick
around? And I think those are both huge,
although slightly opposite questions.
>> Some of those questions were asked of
Mark Zuckerberg, though, Sarah. I
remember the IPO, the road show when he
was wearing the hoodie. Lots of people
were asking questions about whether this
was the right guy to run a public
company. Questions about the origins of
the platform to begin with back in his
days at Harvard. How is that any
different to Sam Alman over at OpenAI?
>> I mean, look, I think that being a
little bit sketchy when you are a
19-year-old um and then going on to
build a company that remember at the
time, right, we had Cheryl Sandberg, we
had all of these sort of adults in the
room, as we sometimes call them in
venture, who did have a lot of that deep
corporate experience that people trusted
because it felt like, hey, maybe Mark's
not necessarily the guy for the job. And
those people broadly had a lot of
sticking power. Whereas you look at Sam
and you say, "Okay, this is somebody
who's in midlife, mid-career. This isn't
sort of a youthful indiscretion. This is
just kind of who he's been. Um, and he
has a really hard time keeping
executives. That revolving door of open
AI is moving fast."
>> Fair point, Sarah. Appreciate it. Thank
you, Sarah Kunster of Cleo Capital on
Open AI versus anthropic and two very
different visions of the future. Let's
keep an update on stories worldwide this
morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Yahara has more. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. The head of the WH will visit
the Ebola hit Democratic Republic of
Congo today. The number of confirmed
deaths in the country topping 200,
raising fears of a wider regional
spread. A Samsung labor union is trying
to stop a vote on a bonus plan that
would give nearly 27 billion to the
company's chip workers. The union says
the deal unfairly favors Samsung's
semiconductor division over other
employees.
And in sports, the Knicks are heading
back to the NBA finals for the first
time since 1999. New York sweeping the
Cleveland Cavaliers in their 11th
straight playoff win. They'll be taking
on either Oklahoma City or San Antonio
in the finals, which tip off on June
3rd. That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yahara, thank you. Thank you for the
update. They just don't lose.
>> It's amazing. They literally just don't
lose. And what's so great about this is
that the Spurs and Oklahoma are now two
for two. So, they're just going to
exhaust themselves while the Knicks get
to rest, get to practice, stay focused,
locked in.
>> Show us the money. What's the price for
ticket?
>> Oh my god. One ticket price cheapest
price
>> something a little bit north of $3,000.
That's nosebleleeds. One ticket is going
for more than $500,000.
>> If anyone needs a plus one, I am
available.
>> The World Cup looks good.
>> I mean, honestly, that looks like a nose
bleed seat for the World Cup. And
frankly, they've done the World Cup
before 1999. So, or since 1999.
>> Up next on the program, backing Fed
Independence.
>> Honestly, I really mean this. This is
not said in any other way. I want Kevin
to be totally independent. I want him to
be independent and just do a great job.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Solit's eye
of Franklin Templeton from New York
City. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
Equity
futures on the S&P 500 positive here by
0.7% on the NASDAQ 100 up by more than 1
percentage point this morning after
closing for the long weekend we reopen
with Russell futures higher by more than
1 percentage point in the bond market
yields pulling back particularly at the
front end of the curve we're down by
seven basis points on twos to 4.05% 05%
this morning backing Fed independence.
>> Kevin will restore confidence in the Fed
which is so important. Honestly, I
really mean this. This is not said in
any other way. I want Kevin to be
totally independent. I want him to be
independent and just do a great job.
Don't look at me. Don't look at anybody.
Just do your own thing and do a great
job.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. Fed
chair Kevin Walsh preparing for his
first full week as the head of the FOMC.
President Donald Trump easing his calls
for interest rate cuts as traders raise
bets for a possible rate hike. Son of
desire, Franklin Templeton writing, with
the energy shock feeding into headline
inflation, rate cuts are off the table.
So now joins us now for more. So now
welcome to the program. If rate cuts are
off the table, are rate hikes on the
table?
>> So hi John, thanks for having me here.
But I would say that rate hikes are on
the table in a in certain circumstances.
I think 4% headline inflation at this
point is almost baked in the cake for
this year just because of where oil
prices are and the elasticities
associated with it. But I think if we
were if we were to see headline
inflation actually start veering not
towards four but clos at a fivey year. I
think rate hikes are on the table. I
don't think that happens this year by
the way.
>> It was funny to know when do you think
that will happen?
If it happens, it depends on how long
this uh these oil prices remain in
place. And if it were to happen, it
would be next year. I think this year uh
I think that even if the conflict were
to resolve in the next week or two
weeks, I still don't think that oil
prices come down significantly below
something like say 80 and that's enough
to get headline up towards four. Tanel,
an increasing number of people are
questioning whether we actually are at
neutral or above neutral. Michael Dardo
from Roth Capital Partners over the
weekend, what if the Fed is actually
below neutral? Matt Lzetti of Deutsche
Bank coming out with a piece called
overinsured where he talked about the
175 basis points of rate cut saying
maybe they went too far. How much are
you sympathetic with these views?
>> Well, I've been saying that the neutral
rate is it closer to four than to three
for about two or three years now. So I'm
happy to see more people coming around
to this view but I completely agree. I
think uh Jay Powell has described policy
repeatedly as being moderately uh
contractionary and I would see it as
being moderately expansionary and I I
think 4% is probably closer to where
neutral is between productivity growth
and the Fed's own inflation target. I
don't think you get to 3%. If that's the
case and all, then you might want to buy
the long end of the yield curve if you
believe that the Fed is actually going
to respond to some of this pressure with
a rate hike. Is the signal that you're
taking from the market that there isn't
a whole lot of faith that there will be
some sort of hiking cycle even if
inflation remains elevated?
>> So, here's the thing. Inflation has been
elevated for three years now. The Fed
has been 50% above its inflation target
and the Fed has cut over that period of
time close to 200 basis points. And
therefore we actually
have a very doubbish Fed and I think the
market is perhaps coming around to that
viewpoint regardless of who the Fed
chair is. I think we have an a very very
doubbish Fed. We've always had one and I
would say that if we look forward I
don't think the market currently is
pricing in realistically what long end
yields would be. I think 4755 is
probably closer to fair value. I think
this is not yet the time to go all in on
long- end yields. I think we're going to
range trade a little bit, but the drift
over the next several
years, I would say, is probably upwards.
It's not downwards.
>> So, no, it's a great point because many
people probably argue that actually Jay
Powell, who was another Trump appointee,
could be even seen historically more
dovish than Kevin Worsh. Kevin Worsh
when he was signing in his swearing in
on Friday and then also gave a little
bit of a speech said he's going to lead
quote with energy and purpose just the
way Chairman Greenspan did. Can you
glean out what kind of Worsh Fed we're
going to see?
>> I think an orthodox one. I hope to see
an orthodox one. It's been close to 20
years we've had completely unorthodox
policy from the Fed. The first go-to is
quantitative easing. That is very very
unorthodox monetary policy. the Fed
should not be engaging in the wrong long
end of the yield curve outside true
crisis and it is true that they've come
in several times when there was a crisis
but they remained in for much longer
than any crisis would indicate they
should therefore I think if I think
about Greenspan's Fed Greenspan Fed
tried to push markets into valuing risk
more appropriately the Fed did not bail
us out if longend yields were
surprisingly low over the Greenspan era.
I think it had a lot more to do with
what was going on in China, petro
dollars, the savings glut. And since the
since the crisis, the global financial
crisis, what we've actually seen is a
Fed which is almost led by markets.
Everything that's gone on on the long
end of the yield curve seems to be
driven less by the economy and much much
more by Fed action intervention and a
part of the yield curve it actually
shouldn't be present in.
>> Some people might say the toothpaste is
out of the tube. Do you see it
differently? Do you think we can go back
to where we used to be? No, I don't
think we can go all the way back
near-term, but I do think over the next
four years, I don't think Kevin Walsh is
coming in and he's going and I don't
think see him shaking up markets by
immediately trying to reduce the size of
the Fed balance sheet. But over the next
four years, I do think we'll see a more
sustained move in that direction in the
direction of reducing the size of the
Fed balance sheet. It is enormous. I
don't think that he's looking for the
financial instability that an overnight
return to.
>> But let's say he goes in that direction.
I'm not saying we get back to that
place, but let's say he goes in that
direction. Do you want to own those
assets on that balance sheet
>> on that? So, you know, eventually, yes.
But before that, we're only talking
about monetary policy in isolation. We
need to see what's going on with fiscal
policy here. And that's another piece of
this puzzle. And it's not it's not a
good one. And that's a part of the
reason that I would not be jumping in to
buy long- end bonds at this point. I
think uh between inflation, between a
return to hopefully more orthodox
monetary policy and a continued fiscal
profleacy in the US, I don't see a
reason to go all in there and own
long-end bonds. I think you could
opportunistically go in and come out,
but I think over a medium-term long-end
yields are going higher.
>> No, thank you. Appreciate it as always.
Side there, Franklin Templeton. I was
going to say earlier in the
conversation, it's funny that we were
all focused on the White House on
Friday, but the real headlines of the
Federal Reserve were made in Frankfurt
with Governor Waller really pushing back
against the easing bias over the Federal
Reserve
>> seems to join the descents, which a lot
of people are taking as just
confirmation that the move away from the
easing bias. That said, this is a
doubbish Fed and how much do they have
to be based on the deficit versus GDP
and that is what a lot of people are
focusing on.
>> Incredibly doubbish Fed.
>> Correct.
>> Before Kevin Walsh even got there.
>> Up next on the program, Leslie Mars of
McKenzie Investments, Henred Trace of
Vader Partners, Calvin Say of BMP
Parabar and the former New York Fed
President Bill Dudley with some things
to say about where rates are right now
from New York City. The second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance up next.
We're not seeing recession though. There
is this tale of two economies.
>> We're in this environment of fiscal
activism and economic nationalism. We've
backed out three rate cuts and added two
rate hikes.
>> I think that the Fed will not hike rates
this year.
>> The market's really having to discount
this backdrop in which the economy is
stronger than expected.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh. Lisa Abramowitz and
Ann Marie Hordern
>> live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
And your price action, your scores look
like this. Close to all-time highs on
the S&P 500 following three days of
gains. Just short of those levels this
morning following a 3-day closure of
this market. We bounced by 7/10en of 1%
on the S&P. on the NASDAQ up by one full
percentage point. In the bond market,
yields backing away from multi-deade
highs at the long end of the curve, down
by six basis points. At the front end of
the curve, down by seven. Queuing off
this in the commodity market. WTI this
morning pricing off Friday's close on
net still lower by 5% with the
escalation we saw overnight. You see a
bounce in Brent crude, but still the
focus of this market, a resolution to
this conflict.
>> And what are the conclusions if we get
some sort of resolution? And this is
what I find interesting. People believe
that inflation will fall back down. That
the Fed will be able to cut rates once
again. That earnings will rebound in
some of the less loved sectors, which is
the reason why you saw equal weight
outperform last week for the first time
in a while. And you saw declines
actually on some of the magnificent
seven names. And you will get back to
where we were before. You could focus on
earnings again and ignore what's going
on. That's where I'm actually curious
about analyzing because I cannot analyze
what's going on with Iran and the United
States. I know the market wants to move
on and focus on earnings, but you have
to look at to understand what's going on
in this conflict. You have to look at
not what the president or the Iranians
are saying, but what they are doing and
what we see them doing is actually what
they say is defensive to hold on to the
ceasefire, but it is more kinetic
warfare. They are going after the
speedboats that the Iranians were using
to drop mines and the Iranians are going
back at the Americans going after F-35s.
So, for me, this doesn't look anything
like a ceasefire. We are seeing some
kinetic movement in the region and I
think this shows that they are still a
long way from reopening the straight and
then getting to the negotiating table to
talk about nuclear
>> energy coming in just a bit but relative
to last year much higher. So looking
ahead to the data later this week PCE on
Thursday we're expecting a number closer
to 4%. That's almost a full percentage
point higher than it was just a few
months ago. We've seen a real real
bounce in inflation data and the outlook
for higher prices. And a key question
for a lot of economists is how sticky
this will be because if you took take a
look at a recent Oxford economic study,
they talk about how it can take two
years for this shock to work itself
through the market. Is there a
dissonance between how much profit
margins are increasing at companies, the
earnings that everyone is cheering and
the potential for there to be stickiness
in some of this inflation? A lot of
people will come here and say absolutely
not. Lisa, look at what we're seeing in
housing. Look at what we're seeing with
wages. It's all great when you look at
the inflation front. Other people saying
take a look at what's actually happening
and maybe we're not restrictive at all.
Maybe this is actually easy in terms of
monetary policy. It's
>> all great for the bad reasons, you know.
>> Exactly. People aren't getting paid for
great reasons.
>> I mean, it sort of again goes back to
the labor question, but I'm going to get
off that.
>> You see, you mentioned on Friday.
>> I did. And
>> really get Bremo going.
>> Terrible. Okay. And Hasset, Kevin Hasset
came out and said, "This is a political
poll, political sentiment." Da d d d d d
d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d
d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d this that
said even if it is political the fact
that some people are feeling the worst
that they've ever felt and it is a
contingent of the population. Is it
because of AI? Is it because uh they
don't like President Trump's policies?
Whatever it is, some people are feeling
bad.
>> Headline index record low, 5 to 10 year
inflation outlook, whatever that's
worth, climbing higher to close to 4%
and more worries that higher prices will
hit personal finances. To your point,
whether you believe that's a political
poll or not, you have to ask yourself,
will that shape behavior in this economy
for a certain cohort of people in this
economy?
>> Also, will it shape how people go out
and vote? Even though this maybe is
political, we see in this country,
elections are won by the independents in
the middle that swing. And this does not
a survey like this with consumer
sentiment dropping to brand new lows
does not bode well for this White House.
>> Futures this morning positive by 0.7%.
That's your bounce on the S&P 500.
Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
Leslie Mars of Mackenzie Investments as
stocks notch an 8week winning run. We'll
speak to Henred Trace of Vader Partners
as the US and Iran exchange fire. And
we'll catch up with the New York Fed
President, the former New York Fed
President, Bill Dudley, on a newly
minted Fed chair, Kevin Walsh. We begin
this out with stocks on track for a
fourth consecutive day of gains, Leslie
Marks of Mackenzie Investments, writing,
"We have a neutral view on equities.
Equities just may need to consolidate
here for a bit before their next move
higher." Leslie joins us now for more.
Leslie, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> We've caught up with a lot of equity
market boards encouraged by these
earnings. They say these earnings have
been the best we've seen outside of
recoveries in decades. that's the reason
for this bull market to continue. Do you
have doubts?
>> I think it's absolutely the reason for
this bull market to continue. I think
just thinking through, we've had a big
move in equities. We've had a good
reaction to earnings and earnings
revisions. And when you look at where
interest rates are here, we just think
that this is a time where we may see a
pause and people start to say, you know
what, long bonds look attractive here
and this is these are levels that we
haven't seen in a very long time. So,
it's just a matter of relative risk and
reward between the two asset class. And
we've got to follow up on long bonds
look attractive here. What makes them
attractive?
>> Well, I think it's just looking at
interest rates and if you think about
what's happening in the political
backdrop to Lisa's point, of course, we
don't know what's going to happen in the
next day or week, but we do believe that
eventually there will be a realization
of some sort of resolution with the war
in Iran. And I think at that point,
people are going to get and you're
already seeing it, they're going to get
more constructive around bonds. And so
that's why we see rates, you know,
having an opportunity here to fall. Bond
prices appreciate and we've had such a
strong move in in equities here. They
are pricing in a lot of optimism. So we
think the bull market continues, but
probably time for a pause.
>> Are you seeing any of your clients
actually seeing long bonds as a
competitive asset to US equities for the
first time in a long time?
>> Well, we haven't actually seen people
sort of talk with their wallets yet.
We're not seeing a a rotation, but we do
think that people when they think about
a risk-free or a lower risk asset versus
a lot of the risk that's built into
equities from an equity risk premium
perspective that you will start to see
people look at rotating into bonds in
the context of our current riskreward
outlook. Well, this raises a key
question and different people have
different outlooks on it, which is how
contingent is the US equity rally to the
idea that the Federal Reserve will keep
cutting rates at some point, right? How
contingent is this rally on the idea
that rates, all things being equal, are
going to head lower? What's your take on
that? Well, when we started out the
year, part of our thesis around higher
equities was related to an easing
monetary policy, just like many other
market prognosticators. Obviously,
that's not in the cards for this year.
Yet, we've still seen equities perform
very well. So, I would say that equity
uh upward price movement is not
necessarily contingent on the Fed
cutting rates throughout the rest of the
year. The big story that's kind of
overtaken the Fed narrative has been
earnings. Earnings have been very
supportive of a higher move in equities
uh for a whole cast of reasons. And we
still see potential upside in earnings
throughout the year. I mean, when you
look at what's been driving the
earnings, the upside, it's been in the
technology sector. It's been as a result
of positive earnings revisions in
energy, ironically. I mean, the S&P 500
is much more levered to technology and
communication services than it is to uh
the negative headwind that higher oil
prices bring about. So, we think there's
still more upside in earnings. There's,
of course, the productivity story coming
from AI, which hasn't really borne out
yet. When you look at what companies are
saying, they're not really talking about
realizing productivity in the rear view
mirror, it's more perspective.
>> Do you think this Fed could look through
the oil shock?
>> I think the Fed is already looking
through the oil shock. Now, the question
will be right now it looks like we're
forecasting or um uh projecting about uh
one interest rate hike towards the end
of the year. Now things have really
shifted from the cuts to towards the
hikes. But I think you could actually
build a story particularly if you have
an agreement with Iran that this is
transitory and that this is primarily um
energy related inflation. And so that's
what you might start to hear in the Fed
language.
>> If we were to see an agreement, would
your neutral view on equities start to
turn a little bit more bullish?
>> Well, I think that you know equities
have been able to look through the
conflict, look through inflation. We've
seen that um even you know when equity
started to rally more recently it was at
the announcement of the temporary
ceasefire. So I think that if you saw um
an agreement you would see a a a modest
move in equities but I'm not sure you're
going to get that big move um that we've
already seen so far. I mean, I think
that's already starting to be priced in,
you know, because it's so unpredictable
and and you pointed that out, Lisa, you
know, daytoday what's going to happen
and what this agreement is going to look
like and what's going to be in that
agreement. I would suggest that we
shouldn't be making decisions on the
basis of an outcome of this war, but
really go back to the fundamentals and
the fundamentals are very strong.
>> Leslie, it's good to see you. Thanks for
being here. Thank you.
>> Thanks for dropping by. Leslie Marks
there of McKenzie Investments future
this morning with a bounce up by 0.7% on
the S&P. You'll notice the
outperformance on the Russell. We saw
that through last week small caps
outperforming equal weight outperforming
>> and who underperforming mega distance 7
which actually lost value on the week
even with the eighth consecutive weekly
gain. And this speaks to even if say we
do see some sort of resolution, what's
going to get bit up? It's going to be
the uh cyclicals. It's going to be those
that are more exposed to oil prices. you
might actually see a little bit of an
underperformance from some of the high
flyers at the same time. Still markets
will be up.
>> That was Alman's point over at Barclays
that maybe that was a risk ahead to the
overall index that you actually get a
resolution in the Middle East which is
difficult to really get your head
around.
>> I was struck by something that he said
which is potentially the bigger risk is
missing on the upside and I think a lot
of people are trying to get ahead of
that risk. So how many people are not
hedged to the downside because
ultimately they're just discounting it
all together.
>> Got a bounce this morning this Tuesday
morning. Good morning to you all. Let's
give you an update on stories elsewhere
with your Bloomberg brief. Yhara is back
with us for more. Hi Yihihara.
>> Hi John. US and Iranian forces clashing
near the straight of Hormuse overnight
even as they tout progress toward a
peace deal. US Secretary of State Marco
Rubio telling reporters in India that
there's a lot of talking back and forth
about quote specific language in the
initial document, so it'll take a few
days. China is restricting overseas
travel for top AI professionals at firms
such as Alibaba and Deepseek. The move
escalates efforts to safeguard strategic
technology and close the gap with the US
in artificial intelligence.
And in sports, a major shakeup at one of
Europe's top football clubs. AC Milan is
parting ways with several top managers
after a directive from its owner,
Redbird Capital Partners. The club
firing its CEO and head coach after
calling last season's performance an
unequivocal failure. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John,
>> I'm ready to step in. You know, I really
am.
>> I would love course Liverpool.
>> It's ridiculous.
>> Just letting you know.
>> Things are not going well in Italy, are
they?
>> I mean, it's been brutal.
>> International team, if you're a Milan
supporter like I am, not going well. No.
>> Over at Ferrari, they're launching the
Nissan Leaf with a Ferrari badge on it.
>> Honestly, which evidently isn't a bucket
with cut up spaghetti and cappuccinos
after work.
>> Yes. Ketchup on pizza.
>> Evidently, I'm there too because I
actually thought it was innovative. If
it were $70,000, I'd be interested.
>> Maloney should step in.
>> Up next on a program.
>> What? Design an engine? Now, stop it
from launching. All right. Reigniting
tensions with Iran.
>> These incredible men and women gave
their lives to ensure that the world's
number one state sponsor of terror will
never have a nuclear weapon. Oh, and
they won't. They will never have a
nuclear weapon.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Henry Trees
of Vader Partners live from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
Still trying to work out how they got in
the news wheel.
>> Someone's trying to troll you.
>> Clearly. Clearly. And now I'm wound up
today.
>> Yeah. Well, I think that Ferrari just
was like, "You know what?
>> Come on. You say that we're in that
bucket.
>> More on the luch a little bit later. 15
minutes away. Important takes on this
program. Futures right now on the S&P up
by 0.7 on the NASDAQ up by 1 percentage
point. On the Russell up by 1 percentage
point and change off the back of this
move in the bond market 2, 10, and 30s.
Yields down across the curve. We're down
by seven at the front end. Taking its
cues from this in the energy market. WTI
this morning pricing off Friday's close.
We're down by 4%. Brent, of course,
pricing off yesterday's close. So
pricing in the escalation overnight
directionally you'll see this move here
by 2.8% $98 about 80 and Savylvanas this
morning reigniting tensions with Iran.
>> These incredible men and women gave
their lives to ensure that the world's
number one state sponsor of terror will
never have a nuclear weapon. Oh, and
they won't. They will never have a
nuclear weapon. We're having victories
all over the place, more than we've had
in many, many decades. So here's the
latest this morning. The US and Iran
exchanging fresh strikes near the
straight of merge. Uranium supplies
remaining a sticking point while both
sides hail progress on a deal.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us now
from Washington. And Tyler, I think
that's where the tension is right now.
They're both talking about progress, but
the sticking point is the ultimate
sticking point to get any deal.
>> Right. And John, at this point, we've
heard from the US that it appears that
we would see a phased agreement if we
see any agreement at all, which would
postpone those negotiations when it
comes to Iran's nuclear program and what
any potential curves would look like.
Because US officials over the weekend
did signal that progress was being made
towards this memorandum of understanding
which our understanding is would first
see an extension of the ceasefire
perhaps on reopening of the strait of
Hermuz and the US lifting the naval
blockade in what appears to be a goal to
decrease the pressure on global oil
supplies but is raising questions about
just how sustainable lasting peace would
be. In fact, those questions are even
being raised by some Republicans and
more hawkish members of the Senate here
in Washington who are concerned that an
approach like this could ultimately lose
the US some leverage when it comes to if
the US would give up its naval blockade
in exchange for Iran to limit its grip
on the strait, as well as uh an
unfreezing of Iranian assets, which we
know is something on the table,
including the fact that we saw an
Iranian delegation arrive in Doha over
the weekend, which included Iran's
central banker in what appeared to be a
bid to try to grease the skids for some
uh relief when it comes to the US
looking at Iranian assets. John, at this
point, the US has really defended its
approach. We heard the US Secretary of
State Marco Rubio overnight saying that
President Trump is committed to only
reaching a good deal. If he doesn't get
a good deal, then there will be no deal
at all.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest down in
Washington. Tyler, thank you. Henry
Traved Partners writing this. President
Trump has until June 2nd to reach a
final deal with Iran or face the risk of
Congress ruling against military
escalation while negotiations are
ongoing. Henrietta joins us now for
more. Henrietta, just familiarize us all
with the calendar. What's special about
June 2nd?
>> Yeah, I would start with last week. Last
week, the House Republican Conference
was this close to voting to approve a
war powers resolution that would have
resisted the president's or limited the
president's ability to perpetuate the
war. The Senate Republican Conference
simultaneously is battling internal
fronts about a billion dollars in
funding for the ballroom, 1.776
billion dollars for January 6th
insurrectionists.
um a fight over the fact that the
president is trying to unseat and is
succeeding in unseating reliable
Republican voters across Kentucky,
Indiana, Louisiana, North Carolina, and
it's really disrupted the president's
control of the Senate Republican
Conference. So, when you think about
what happened, in order to keep the
peace and prevent and an an uprising,
the leaders of both the House and the
Senate sent their members home and
they're going to be gone until January
2nd. So the president effectively has
the rest of this week to coordinate get
some uh resolution to the straight of
hormuz or a war powers resolution bill
is in a place where it can pass in both
the house and the senate and that's a
problem.
>> Henry in the Senate who what Republicans
are going to vote for that go against
the president?
>> Uh Senator Bill Cassidy in Louisiana,
Senator Tom Tillis could flip. Senator
Susan Collins of Maine, Lisa Marowsky of
Alaska. Um, and one more that I'm
blanking on at the moment, but there are
as many as five Senate Republicans who
are willing to cross the aisle right
now.
>> How much is the president trying to
plate some of these Iranian hawks? You
know, Lindsey Graham was very prolific
and busy on Twitter over the weekend.
And given the fact that the president
started to bring in this idea of an
expansion of the late Abraham Accords,
you started to hear him flip and say
that this is a brilliant idea, could
change the Middle East. Is the president
now adding to more deals he needs to get
done when it comes to Iran to plate his
own party?
>> I I don't know that it's necessarily to
plate the party. There are members like
Lindsey Graham, um Senator Wicker who
want the escalation of military force to
to perpetuate. They want uh another
round of air bombing to take out what is
now understood to be 70% of missile cap
capabilities that Iran has back in its
control. So, there are members that are
looking for more military escalation,
but the war is uniquely unpopular with
the American public. Um, and you guys
were talking about the polling data
earlier. The polls of American consumer
sentiment are absolutely biased. They're
a political barometer now, and they have
been for uh I don't know, at least five
years. But you don't get to the
thresholds that are this low without
also losing Republican support. The
president's down 18 points with
Republicans since January, and that's
largely because of the war. So, if the
goal is to just end this, get the street
reopen, there are two ways to do it. You
either expand the pie and make the the
make the deal that you're working out
with Iran look more comprehensive, like
acknowledging Israel, for example, as
you're alluding to, or you go in with
the military component and you really
try to reeffate regime change if at all
possible, or at least recgain control of
the straight, which we do not have right
now.
If the president is losing popularity of
the Republican party, then why is he
able to unseat incumbents with such
incredible unonymity? I mean, we've seen
that one after another and Texas has
another primary today where potentially
we could see Ken Paxton take the lead
over John Cornin. Primaries, that's it.
Like, who are you turning out? Who is
voting? I mean, the average bear doesn't
vote in a primary. very enthusiastic,
hardcore Trump supporters, hardcore
motivated party members of both sides,
Democrats and Republicans are the ones
who turn out for a primary. So, if you
are inclined to be a regular routine uh
go-getter voter, you are the one that is
voting in a primary. So, it ends up
being a more extreme um demographic. And
so, that's true on the MAGA side as well
as on the left. What do you think that
means for the fall elections, the
midterm elections that a lot of people
have said probably will go Democratic?
There's been a lot of redistricting.
There has been a move to the extremes on
both sides. What do you expect in terms
of just how much this could shake up the
uh resolution of that vote?
>> Uh I'm at 95% odds that Democrats win
the House and the odds of the Democrats
winning the Senate have been creeping up
all year largely because of the war.
Although there's a lingering hangover
from the deaths uh in Minnesota from ICE
and of course the tariffs that were also
unpopular. What you want to look at is
the generic ballot. As we've discussed
in the past, the average American
doesn't know who their congressman is.
So when you look at what the parties
want, the latest Wall Street Journal
poll shows a plus nine lead uh plus
eight, I think eight or nine lead for
the Democratic incumbent. That means the
Democrats are galvanized. They're
encouraging uh the Democratic party.
They are happy to get out and vote.
their fundraising. Um, and that portends
a win. So, my odds on the Senate side
are still 45%. The map favors
Republicans overwhelmingly. Democrats
would have to pick up Texas and Alaska
and Ohio and states that have gone for
Trump reliably for years. In the case of
Alaska by, I think, 14 points, Ohio by
eight points. Um, so the map is really
difficult, but it's trending in that
direction. You can see the anxiety as I
described from the Senate Republican
conference.
>> Henry, it's basically June. What would
the Republicans need to do this summer
to turn it around?
I don't think that there's really a path
to that to be honest. Amory, um, when we
got into this year, gas prices were on
average $2.81.
Now we're at 450 and Americans don't
like it. If you open the straight
tomorrow, you got to deal with the fact
that there's 80 bombed out facilities
across ports, refineries, oil producers
that are bombed out. And that will take
one to three, maybe even five years to
restore. So, we're not going to get gas
prices back to where the American public
wants them to be. And that's the reality
the Republican conference has to face
because they made the decision to go
into this war. If you think about gas
prices dropping twice as slowly as they
rise, we're talking like October,
November, December before we get
anywhere near a three handle. Um, 305,
310, 320, something anything that
Americans would consider normal. 450
isn't going to cut it.
>> The midterms feel like a lifetime away
still. sink here in May. Henry, thank
you. But I know time's passing quickly.
Hen Trades of Vader Partners. I found
that Q1 felt like a lifetime. Q2 is
wrapping up very, very quickly. Want to
bring up this stock very quickly. This
move here, BP in London trading. Check
it out. Down by close to 4%. This
statement just dropped. Press release
from the company reading as follows. The
board of PP announces that it has today
unanimously decided that Albert Manifold
should no longer serve as chair and
director with immediate effect. This
follows serious concerns raised to the
board related to important governance
standards, oversight, and conduct.
Amanda Blancc, a senior independent
director at BP, said the following. I'll
read the quote for you. Albert has
helped bring a welcome focus and pace to
BP's transformation. However, the board
has been surprised and disappointed to
learn of governance oversight and
conduct issues it deems unacceptable and
has taken decisive action. That stock is
trading lower by about 3.6%. Yeah, they
named Ian Tyler as interim chair and uh
with immediate effect as they try to
replace the CEO. Real question here
about what the strategy is going to be.
BP has sort of fluctuated between moving
to more green energy and not Well, we're
going to learn more about exactly what
happened uh here. I'm going to keep
looking to see what that potential
malfence could be.
>> Well, this is the issue with this
statement. It doesn't give any details
on what this quote serious governance
concern is. is and if it's so serious I
think they would obviously need to be
pretty transparent with their
shareholders about what exactly what
happened.
>> We'll keep track of that story for you.
The stock is lower in London trading by
around 4%. Coming up on the program,
Calvin say of BMP Parabar on the health
of the US consumer plus Danny's back.
She's got your morning movers. Shares of
Micron rising on a potential
breakthrough in China. The stock is up
at a pre-market by 6%.
equity futures firmer by 7/10 of 1% on
the S&P 500. On the NASDAQ, we're
rallying by one full percentage point.
3-day winning streak coming into Tuesday
on the S&P. We're about to make it day
four. Very close to all-time highs.
Catch up trade in the bond market.
closed yesterday, open today. Yields
lower across the curve. Two's down by 7,
10's down by 8 as a break of 450 off the
back of this move in the energy market.
WTI pricing off Friday's close negative
by some four to 5% throughout much of
this morning so far. That's helping the
trade in the bond market, helping the
equity market just a little bit more.
>> You know, I noticed that the market
rallies more on the potential of a deal
than it does fall on the potential for
some sort of reescalation. And the faith
that something will really transpire
here between the US and Iran seems to be
very strong. People want to move on very
strongly from this. They want to feel
good about some of the less loved names
than say the Magnificent 7 and they're
using every excuse they can to to do
that.
>> It's still difficult to move on. You see
the headlines overnight. If you look at
Brent pricing off yesterday's close,
Brent this morning bouncing back just a
little bit. Not too much drama, but
ultimately we're told a deal is going to
be struck. Okay. Then why is Iran laying
mines in the straight of former if the
straight of former mer is about to
reopen?
>> It's a very good question. This is some
extreme scenario where at the very end
of a negotiation everyone's trying for
the final bits. The real issue is
neither tyrron or Washington have
changed their red lines. So it's hard to
see a negotiation a real deal opening
up. I think it's important to remember
that there's really two negotiations
going on. We've been talking about this
for weeks now. one just to reopen the
straight of form moose and two something
more permanent when it comes to nuclear
and even what seems like maybe some
thought was going to be easier in terms
of straight of moose is not so simple.
>> Lisa was done weeks ago.
>> You were done with this weeks ago.
You're not alone.
>> Okay, the peanuts cartoon. I don't know.
You've probably never watched it.
>> But when the adults speak, you just hear
ww.
That's essentially what happens when
people start feels like
>> Is that how you feel about me?
>> I'm in a bucket. I mean, I'm in a
bucket. We've got spaghetti.
>> You can set that in a moment as we count
you down to the oven in about two hours
to go. Let's get you some single name
some morning movers. Danny has more.
Hey, Danny.
>> Hey, John. The semis, the chipmakers are
rallying this morning. For one, they
just have become this high beta uh uh
sector for the S&P 500. When it rallies,
these things rally. But a couple other
things going on. For one, Huawei out
with some more advancements. That's
leading to optimism over the sector and
the chips that will go in to those
devices. And for Micron specifically,
the president name-checking the company
at a rally on Friday, calling out how
much they're investing into the United
States. They have committed about $200
billion dollars to build out
manufacturing capabilities in the United
States. So those shares up more than 6%
in the pre-market. Some deal news. Eli
Liy will be buying three different
vaccines, getting back into the
infectious disease treatment. It's
something that a lot of these vaccine
maker or drug companies are rushing to
get back into. shingles among the
various vaccines that they have bought
from different companies. Those shares
up 1 and a3%. Finally, anything having
to do with space is rallying a lot this
morning. All in anticipation of the
SpaceX IPO because if SpaceX can be $2
trillion, why can't these companies be
worth more? A one of them. They make the
satellites that are launched into space,
those shares go up nearly 7% in the
pre-market. John,
>> hey Danny, thank you. Thank you for the
update. More from Danny in the next
hour. On our radar this morning, the US
and Iran exchanging fire just hours
after President Trump held progress on a
peace deal. The US Secretary of State
Marco Rubio saying negotiations are
still underway.
>> It's going to take a couple days uh to
settle on even down to the disagreements
over a word uh sentence. There's going
to be a deal. We're going to have to
work through that. It's either going to
be a good deal or there isn't going to
be one.
>> The straight of Iran's nuclear program
remaining key factors in peace talks.
Elsewhere, AI training firm Wall Street
Prompt is cashing in on automation. The
firm charging $25,000 a day to teach
bankers how to use AI tools. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg the company
has worked with Tro Price City and Bank
of America. And finally, shares of
Ferrari falling after unveiling its
first fully electric vehicle. The luxury
car maker facing negative reviews from
critics and analysts. Many believing the
car is too similar to other popular EVs.
You know, I would buy this car for
$70,000, $60,000, not maybe $650,000.
I will just say the executive chairs of
this. Ferrari loose is not a
responsible,
>> whatever.
>> Come on.
>> It is a deliberate decision to lead.
What goes next? I'll take over. So, this
is what I thought was the most
interesting. Rolls-Royce commented on
their Instagram, even we have standards.
Aston Martin, we wouldn't be caught dead
in this. Tesla, you spelled quote
software update wrong. No one likes this
car except maybe people who were going
to go out and buy a Tesla to Lisa's
point anyway. But if you are buying a
Ferrari and you potentially are buying
this Ferrari because you also think in
the future it's going to have more
value, this is not the car for you. And
I'm just confused. They might lose their
hardcore fans with this EV experiment.
>> Clearly Johnny Ice wanted to design a
car and Johnny Ives has designed a car.
Johnny Ives has not designed a Ferrari
and there's a massive difference. The
question and I think it speaks to why
the stock is down this morning is why
Mr. Alcan over at Ferrari and over at
Fiat allowed this to ever happen. That's
the question I've got this morning. How
on earth did Alcan and Co sign off on a
car that looks like that and stick a
Ferrari badge on it? That is a judgment
call and I think that is why the stock
is down this morning.
>> What is their goal with this? I think
that that is a fair question given the
fact that they haven't had an EV until
now that this is a flooded market with
electric vehicles that look something
like this and Ferrari has been a
selective sort of aspirational purchase.
They said that they are going to limit
the purchases for this too. Let's see
how they actually do and whether they
gain traction. But I think that that is
the key question. What is the ultimate
strategy going forward? When you had
Ferrari's chief marketing commercial
officer give this interview to the
Financial Times, he said to my petrol
heads that I meet, I always tell them,
"Please don't buy the luch. The key
driver the car maker is targeting is
someone who already owns an electric
car." And of the people invited to its
launch event, they weren't Ferrari
drivers, so they're trying to expand.
But yet, once again, you might end up
ruining the brand and the core
individuals that love Ferrari like our
Jonathan Pharaoh.
>> I get why they're doing it. I understand
that the regulations are pushing them in
that direction. For me, take the EV out
of it. Forget that it's got an electric
engine. It's the design of what it looks
like. That's the problem. If you ever
get the opportunity and you find
yourself in Northern Italy, go to
Moderna and go to the Enzo Ferrari
Museum and you walk in and some
beautiful cars and you track the history
of progression of how these cars have
been built, the engines, the designs.
You start with like something like a 166
mm. It's just stunning. This car from
like the 40s50s and the heritage that
builds from there. If you dump that into
that museum, it's going to look like a
massive eyesaw. It has no place in the
heritage of Ferrari. No place
whatsoever.
>> So again, who's going to buy the loose?
And what exactly are we going to see
with this?
>> Grandma, what you doing? Come on.
>> Stock.
>> She knows. She knows. She knows.
>> Go cut your spaghetti.
>> Drink your cappuccino in the afternoon.
I totally put ketchup on your pizza.
That's disgusting.
>> Come on. Ferrari down this morning by
6%. Let's turn to the consumer and the
US economy. Sentiment falling to a
record low as rising prices weigh on
shoppers. Traders looking for more
insight with another busy week of retail
earnings on deck. Calvin say of BMP
Paraba writing the consumer has been
resilient. Fiscal stimulus, wealth
effects, and monetary stimulus are
offsetting pain at the pump. Calvin
joins us now for more. Calvin, good
morning. Good to see you.
>> Good morning.
>> Welcome to the program. How much weight
should we put on that record low
consumer confidence read on Friday?
>> Not very much. A lot of these consumer
sentiment numbers have been coming up
and down and they really haven't driven
actual consumption. If you look at what
people are actually doing, retail sales
have remain strong through this war. And
exactly as we say, there are three
things propping up the consumer right
now. It's the wealth effect. It's fiscal
stimulus and we also think really
importantly monetary policy is very
stimulus stimulative at the moment.
>> I wanted to pick up on the monetary
policy call. This seems somewhat unique
to you and the team over at BMP Parab. I
think a lot of other banks are getting
there. They're just not quite there yet.
the risks of a hike and maybe this year.
Could you lay them out for us?
>> Sure. We've been highlighting that there
are two prerequisites necessary for a
hike. One is either long-term inflation
expectations show more signs of
unanchoring and the other is potentially
the labor market tightening further.
We're already starting to see signs of
this. As you saw last Friday, the
University of Michigan report 5 to 10
year inflation expectations jumped in a
really big way. And the Fed needs to be
worried about this. This is exactly what
we saw in the 1970s when we had a
rolling series of shocks to inflation
that led to an anchoring of inflation
expectations and that prompted the Fed
to have to do a lot of hiking to combat
that. So, that's something that we're
very worried about and we're also
worried about the risk that maybe we
might be over the next few months seeing
a labor market heat up here that could
also get the Fed toward rate hikes.
>> We're not there yet and a lot of people
push back on that and say maybe it's not
accommodative. Maybe we're just seeing a
productivity boom and we're seeing all
of these positive things that are
happening in equity markets that can
keep risk assets elevated even with
rates at a relatively restrictive pace.
How much do you get that? How do you
push back against that argument?
>> It's pretty simple to me. If monetary
policy really were restrictive, you
should be seeing one progress on
inflation, maybe strip out all the
volatile stuff, you're still not seeing
any progress in things like non shelter
services inflation. and you should be
seeing progress on uh labor market. The
unemployment rate should be going higher
if monetary policy were restrictive, but
it's been very rangebound and we think
there are actually downside risks to
unemployment rate over the next few
months.
>> What happens if Kevin Worsh, the Kevin
Worshled Fed does not hike rates, right?
I mean, how potentially big of a mistake
would this be on the long end of the
yield curve and how much would bond
markets revolt?
>> We don't think that the Fed needs to be
hiking now. We just think that the
conditions will likely be in place at
some time this year for the Fed to
seriously have to consider hiking rates.
Let's say our scenario plays out with
unemployment rate is making a move
toward 4% and inflation expectations so
show signs of unanchoring. We think the
Fed is going to hike. Worsh is just one
person. He's one out of 12 votes. And as
you can see in the minutes, as you can
see by Christopher Waller's speech last
week, even the Doves are moving in the
hawkish direction. and one person is not
going to be able to stop a hike if the
monetary policy conditions suggest that
we should be seeing one.
>> What kind of consumer will we see then
if they really think inflation is going
to be much higher?
>> The consumer for now again we think is
relatively supported. We've have
stimulus coming through
>> doesn't that dry up at some point?
Aren't they using those that extra
stimulus right now for higher energy
cost
>> in the first half of the year? We think
fiscal stimulus is going to be a big
supporter of consumption. That's going
to wane by the second half of the year,
but our feeling is that the labor market
is going to remain tight. I'll just give
you a very quick anecdote. We just
finished Q1 earning season. The S&P 500
is expected to see 20% earnings growth
over the course of the next year. The
corporate sector is on fire. Meanwhile,
at the same time, we've seen zero jobs
added to the US economy over the last
year outside of healthcare.
companies just simply we think don't
have enough labor. So we think we could
see a pickup of hiring throughout the
summer and into the end of the year and
that we think should also help support
consumption.
>> A pick up in wage growth as well.
>> That pick up in wage growth isn't going
to come immediately. We think it's going
to require tighter labor market which is
why the Fed currently is not concerned
about the labor market and that's why
our threshold is around 4% on the
unemployment rate. If we start moving to
and toward uh 4% at those levels, then
you could start getting much more
concerned that wage growth may begin to
perk up in the economy.
>> Final question. How many Ferrari Luches
will be selling this economy?
>> I'm not buying one, but but I'm not sure
who else.
>> Don't have to go there, Cav. I
appreciate it. Thank you, sir. Thank
you. C there of BMP Paraba. I'm not sure
that the US market is the market for it.
You know,
>> ultimately,
>> I mean, who is who is the market for it?
Look,
>> might be China. I don't know. You really
want to go back to this? I I think the
loose discussion I think look people
clearly
>> I got a great message from a Bloomberg
subscriber which was limit it to one.
Just produce one. Just limit it to one.
>> I think it's actually bold and look I'm
going to be the contrarian here because
I feel bad by all means.
>> Who do you feel bad for?
>> I I think the craftsmanship I was
reading about how quickly you can
accelerate to 60 m hour. I think it's 2
and electric engine right now. Right.
Well, it's faster than that and the fact
that it has a maximum of 300 kilometers
per hour is pretty impressive. I think
that there the power that can be
sustained. I think it's good to be bold.
I don't know that the design is the
boldest that it could have been, but
still and trying to reconcile the sort
of roar that people tend to enjoy versus
the non-existent.
>> You're entitled to opinion.
>> You're not entitled to making up Italian
words, though. Yeah,
>> okay. Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Yhira has more. Hey,
Yahara.
>> Hi, John. President Donald Trump is
requesting that several Arab and Muslim
countries join the Abraham Accords in
exchange for a deal with Iran. In a
truth social post, Trump calling on
Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Turkey, and
Pakistan to sign the accord, which would
effectively see them normalize ties with
Israel. Iran's government may ease the
monthsl long internet blackout. The
official Islamic Republic news agency
saying a government task force voted on
Monday in favor of returning internet
access to conditions in place before
January 2026.
Now, the latest on the overheating
chemical tank in Southern California
that forced 50,000 people to evacuate
overnight. Oren County fire officials
said many residents could return home,
but those closest to the site are still
under evacuation orders. Officials say
the risk of a major explosion has now
been avoided. Dr. Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yahara. Thank you. I just admire Lisa's
determination. Consistency to be
contrarian at all times.
>> And it now finds you on this side of
this argument with this thing.
>> It's it's not the easiest argument to
keep going with, but I'm going to keep
keep trying.
>> I admire it.
>> Thank you. I appreciate
>> so consistent through the commercial
breaks. It's non-stop. Up next on the
program, reforming the Federal Reserve.
I will lead a reform oriented Federal
Reserve, learning from past successes
and mistakes, both upholding clear
standards of integrity and performance.
Up next, we'll catch up with the former
New York Fed President, Bill Dudley,
live from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
Stocks here bouncing up by 0.7% on the
S&P 500 on the Nasdaq up by one full
percentage point. Catch up trade at the
bond market. Yields lower after a 3-day
weekend here state side. We're down by
seven basis points on twos. We're down
by close to eight on 10, 448 on 10 and
just about holding on to 5% on a
30-year. Under surveance this morning,
reforming the Federal Reserve.
I will lead a reform oriented Federal
Reserve, learning from past successes
and mistakes both, escaping static
frameworks and models, and upholding
clear standards of integrity and
performance. So, here's the latest this
morning. Fed chair Kevin Walsh preparing
for his first week leading the central
bank as investors pric in higher for
longer rates. The former New York Fed
President Bill Dudley writing, "The
prevailing wisdom is that the Fed will
tighten monetary policy later this
year." Bill joins us now for more. Bill,
welcome to the program. I enjoyed the
piece. I just want to get to one
important line in there, whether it's
credible for this Federal Reserve to say
that monetary policy is indeed still
restrictive. Bill, what's your take on
that?
>> I think you have to look at the
economy's performance over the last few
years. We've been at this level of
interest rates or higher since November
of I think 2022, and yet the economy is
continuing to grow. We're still at full
employment. So, where's the evidence
that monetary policy has actually been
restrictive? If it had been restrictive,
the economy should have slowed down. The
unemployment rate should have risen. So,
I think the case for cutting rates now
is actually very very weak.
>> Given that uh Bill, there's a real
question here about the housing
disinflation that people point to as
well as uh we haven't seen wage
inflation accelerate. In fact, you've
seen it decelerate. We've seen the
worker not participate as much as
companies in terms of just their profit
margins. At what point does the Fed have
a right to keep looking at that rather
than the overlying GDP growth? I think
they do have a right to look at that. I
mean, I think the big question is is if
is the tax refunds that have boosted
people's disposable income over the last
few months the key driver and as we get
to July, August, September, will
consumer spending turnover or is the
fact that financial conditions are so
easy? Is that going to be the dominant
influence in terms of supporting
consumption and economic activity? I
think the wage trend is is is something
that is positive in terms of those who
think that inflation can come back down
to 2%. uh but that could turn uh I think
the problem here is that we've been
above the Fed's inflation target for
five more than five years and there is a
risk that inflation expectations do
finally become unanchored and the
University of Michigan preliminary
result last uh last week showed that the
you know 5 to 10 year inflation
expectations did tick up quite mark
marketly uh Chris Waller's focused on
the two-year inflation outlook you know
two years two years forward uh that's
also moved up so I think the Fed is is
concerned that they're they're starting
to lose credibility because they haven't
been able to get inflation back down to
2%.
>> How much is this Fed sort of conditioned
by the preandemic reality of low rates
in a way that has made them overly
doubbish to meet the moment and frankly
having to reconcile their overly dovish
stance with fundamentally stickier
inflation as a reality?
>> I agree with that. I mean, I think that
if you look at the level of real rates
prior to, you know, 2007, uh, the real
rate embodied in the Taylor rule, for
example, is 2%. Uh, the Fed's assuming
today that the level of real rates
adjusted for 2% inflation is 1%. So,
it's very possible that, you know,
monetary policy today is not, you know,
rest, you know, restrictive at all
because real rates are higher. And
there's a there's a reason to think that
real rates are higher. Look at the
investment spending boom uh caused by
the AI. uh that's raising real interest
rates because it's increasing the
investment demand in the economy. The
fiscal path of the US is also raising
real rates because it's diminishing the
supply of of savings available for
investment. So I think there are reasons
or good reason to think that real rates
are higher than they have been in the
recent past.
>> When you have Christopher Waller saying
that his current policy position is to
hold rates steady for the near term
because policy risks have changed. Do
you find it interesting that he was able
to look through the potential tariff
impact on inflation, but he's not when
it comes to the oil shock?
>> Well, I think they're really the same in
terms of, you know, both being likely to
be transitory. The real question though
is how does it get bodied in inflation
expectations and I just think the Fed is
sort of pushing the limits of their
credibility to claim that trust us that
we're going to get inflation back down
to 2% when we haven't been able to do it
for the last 5 years. So I think he's
getting nervous uh that they can't
sustain this. There's also a big risk
here. I mean Kevin Worsh is coming in.
The president wants lower interest
rates. So you can see all the elements
in place where the Fed should, you know,
tighten rates sometime later this year
and they don't because of the pressure
from the president. So the questions
about the Fed's independence, how
willing Kevin Wartz would be willing to
buck the the the the desires of the
president also weigh into this
situation. So I think that if the Fed's
independence wasn't wasn't under
question, then there'd be more likely
that inflation expectations would stay
well anchored.
>> So Bill, there's an odd tension in
inflation expectations right now.
Consumers don't trust them. Haven't for
a while. You see that in the recent
survey. They're expecting inflation to
be way above their particular target for
a significant period of time, Bill.
Market-based inflation expectations.
Does the market trust them? Well, I
think if you look at the very longer
term expectations, for example, like you
look at the the Treasury inflation
protected securities market versus
nominal treasuries, five five years out,
it looks fine. I think the issue is is
that an accurate measure of what uh
households and businesses think today.
And I think that's why Waller brought up
uh what's inflation going to be two
years from now for the next two years
and that has started to tick up. So
that's not so far over the horizon. Five
years is pretty long time. Yeah, I can
trust the Fed's going to get inflation
down to 2% in five years. Are they going
to get it down to 2% in by by the end of
2027?
>> Is this a recent problem or a problem
that's persisted for some time under
Chairman Pal?
>> I don't I think it's a more recent
problem in the sense that the
credibility that monetary policy is
restrictive has really started diminish
as the economy has continued to perform
well. Uh so that's really the you know
if if thesis was correct that policy was
restrictive then the economy should have
slowed more and the unemployment rate
should have risen more.
>> Certainly this data is testing that
thesis bill appreciate your time. Great
column today. Thank you, sir. The former
New York Fed President Bill Dudley on
Bloomberg opinion. This line, it isn't
credible to judge monetary policy as
restrictive when short rates have been
above current levels for more than 3
years and the unemployment rate remains
at a level judged by monetary policy
makers to be consistent with full
employment and stable inflation.
>> He's not alone. Increasingly over the
weekend, a lot of different economists
came out with similar types of tones.
Michael Darda, what if the Fed is
actually below neutral? Matt Matt
Luzetti talking about how maybe uh the
Fed bought itself too much insurance
with the 175 basis points of rate cuts.
There's a deeper question here. How can
any Federal Reserve be hawkish when
they're dealing with an overhang of a
fiscal deficit that is not cooperative
with what they're dealing with? Right? I
mean ultimately math would suggest that
as the deficit goes up, people have to
pay more for the borrowing and that is
something that is just a natural
consequence. The Fed doesn't want that,
right? because that's not the kind of
tightening that they want to see. And as
these politically appointed members come
on, they've increasingly tended to try
to look past inflation. This is the
dynamic that we have here at hand. So
there is a question about the
independence regardless of the person
simply because of the deficit and the
structure here.
>> There's a deep irony to all of this is
worth highlighting. It's odd we're even
having this conversation about central
bank independence. understand the
president was pretty wound up by the
fact that the old chairman chairman Pal
cut interest rates three times heading
into the election. He also cut interest
rates again last year three times by 75
basis points. And the conversation we're
having now today is that the chairman
pal Fed might have been too doubbish and
still going into this month might have
been too doubbish and yet here we are
talking about independence because the
president was unhappy with the current
chairman who everyone is saying might
have been too doubbish.
>> Key question for Kevin Walsh. Can he
maintain the too doubbish Powell Fed
given the mandate that he's received
from this president?
>> Redefining doubbishness, aren't we? We
are. It's not cutting rates, it's just
keeping rates on hold. Up next, Mona
Mahan of Edward Jones, Amanda Liner of
Goldman Sachs, Greg Deo of EY Pathon,
and Richard Bernstein of Janice
Henderson from New York City. The third
hour of Bloomberg Surveillance just
around the corner.
It's a market that is looking at
reasonable growth.
>> People feel like they have to put money
to work.
>> Stay diversified. You stay disciplined
and you get rewarded.
>> The market could get gut checked here
from Momentum Unwind.
>> Were it not for AI, this would be a
very, very different story. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern
>> live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
And your price action, the scores look
like this. Equity futures bouncing by
0.7%
following a 3-day weekend state side.
The NASDAQ up by 1 percentage point. The
outperformance on the small caps last
week could get more of the same later on
this morning with this move in the bond
market. 2's 10 30s yields lower to your
notes down by six basis points 4.05%
10's down by 7 to 448 taking cues from
the energy market this morning WTI
following Friday's close negative by 4
percentage point with all the good
feelings and vibes over the weekend
about getting closer and closer and
closer and closer to a deal in the
straight of four.
>> Yeah, we're 95% there. There's a
question here as we go forward about uh
what kind of blowback there will be in
terms of the decline in inflation that
we could get if this is resolved. Right?
The the I see the idea of going back to
where we were before the conflict with
Iran began. It seems like in the bond
market there is a hope that we will
disinflate as quickly as we inflated.
That I think is a key question. How
quickly can we see the inflation that's
been warped into the system as a result
of the conflict and in tandem with very
strong earnings if there is a resolution
to this conflict?
>> And it's confusing when it comes to the
conflict because on one hand the
president is saying the talks are
proceeding nicely. On the other hand,
the US military is actually going after
Iranian boats that were then laying
mines. I'm not sure how they're straight
to your point Jonathan is going to open
if there's going to be mines that are
laid at the bottom of the sea. And also
going after missile launch sites as well
in Iran. But they are clinging to this
idea of a ceasefire at least verbally,
not physically. Look what they're doing.
That doesn't look like a ceasefire to
quote protect our troops from threats
posed by Iranian forces. They want the
ceasefire to maintain, but say that this
is defensive in nature.
>> Things can change and they can change
really quickly. This from Andrew
Honhorse of City. If we get a deal and
these positive developments could lead
to a rapid repricing of front-end
yields, which continue to dramatically
overpric the probability of rate hikes,
things can change really fast. So, what
do you do if you're the Fed? Well, the
Fed's got an easy move to make in many
ways in the next month. You just remove
the easing bars. You slip into neutral
and you figure things out through the
summer. Everyone else has put themselves
in a bit of a box here. The ECB being
one in the next month because if this
continues, then the ECB based on their
guidance, they're going to hike.
>> Yeah. And if the Fed is behind, there's
a real question about the liability for
the Federal Reserve. Look, the ECB is
probably going to hike. That is priced
in. The Fed might remove the easing
bias. That's ludicrous. If you take a
look at some of the commentary that were
even talking about just that small step
uh that the next move isn't necessarily
going to be a cut. The market has moved
on. I think this is really important.
The market is not taking forward
guidance from the Federal Reserve
anymore. They're taking forward guidance
from oil prices from some of the data
that they're seeing and they aren't
pricing in fully a rate hike by early
next year. So the Fed may signal
whatever they want, but at this point it
is just potentially to disappoint the
market that already has gotten
significantly ahead of them.
>> Governor Waller in the mix on Friday
going into the weekend. He really made
the headlines. That's a guy worth
watching on the committee. Very data
dependent. Unfairly, I think dragged
through the mud in the Wall Street
Journal this morning. And I'll just say
that much. This is a guy who up until
the war was thinking about reducing
interest rates because of developments
in the labor market. Developments in the
labor market have stabilized and
inflation expectations have picked up.
If you're a data dependent central
banker, you should be changing your mind
based on those details alone over the
last several months.
>> Yeah. I mean ultimately can you really
say this is transitory right? Can you
say that some of the increase that we've
seen the reaceleration in inflation
metrics truly is transitory when you
have a labor market that seems to be on
the margins tightening getting better
when you see profit margins that are
reaching the highest in decades in a
non-re in in the aftermath of a
non-recessionary period of time. So you
take a look at this the data is giving a
message.
>> We're not talking about hiking rates 50
basis points next month. We're talking
about being open-minded, slipping into
neutral, being open-minded about the
future. What's wrong with that?
>> Yeah. I mean, the future of the Fed
policy, the future of electric vehicles,
the future of racing. Open-minded.
>> I don't have a problem with EVs,
>> per se. It's not that they've done an
EV. It's that it looks like that. That
That's the problem.
>> The color.
>> It's not even the color, it's the
design.
>> Yeah. One analyst called it a Honda
Accord. Can you imagine your $650,000
EV being compared to a Honda Accord? If
a cartoon monster ate an Accord and a
Nissan Leaf and spat it back out and
Alcam went over there and put a Ferrari
badge on, that's what it looks like.
>> I think that's been done on Twitter, by
the way.
>> Okay. Has it?
>> Yes, I think that that's where people
are going.
>> There you go. Coming up this hour, we'll
catch up with Majan of Edward Jones as
investors shake off strikes in the
Middle East. We'll speak to Amanda
Linham of Goldman Sachs on why private
credit fears are overblown. And Richard
Bernstein of Janice Henderson saying a
boring portfolio is a beautiful one. We
begin this out with stocks closing in on
fresh all-time highs. The investment
strategy team at Edward Jones writing,
"We do not think the move in yields is
enough to derail the bull market. This
is not a repeat of 2022." Man Janet
Edward Jones joins us now for more. Man,
it's good to see you.
>> Good to see you.
>> Welcome to the program. It's not a
repeat of 22. We've heard that a few
times. It hasn't been until maybe later
this year when people are talking about
the prospect of hikes.
>> Do hikes change the game if we get them?
You know, look, I think the market is
doing the job almost for the Fed as you
all talked about earlier today. I mean,
we saw yields on the 10-year move up to
470 uh coming in a bit now as oil prices
are coming in, but nonetheless, uh the
Fed almost doesn't have to do anything.
The market is tightening conditions uh
for investors de facto. Now the other
thing I'll say briefly is um this Fed if
this was a demand driven shock if people
were going out there really buying oil
that was driving prices up that's one
thing rate hikes could help that this is
clearly a supply driven shock straight
of horm is closed fed rate hikes in that
environment don't really solve the issue
or address the issue of adding supply to
the system so something we should
consider as we move forward as well
>> hasn't it demonstrated in some ways
though that consumers can stomach these
high prices which might be a signal to
other actors in the economy and also
might be a signal for us to sit here and
recognize and this is what Bill Dudley
the point that he's making that maybe we
aren't that restrictive at the Federal
Reserve.
>> You know, look, I think uh with the Fed
at 3.75%, inflation around 3.8% clearly
you're at least at a neutral rate. Um
maybe slightly restrictive if you think
oil is transitory. We do think the
market is forward looking. This market
is pricing in and we see what they're
pricing in. WTI futures curves are
looking back to low 80 levels by year
end. We're looking at earnings growth at
20% plus this year. So this is a an
economy that has uh withtood very nicely
oil price increases and oil price
shocks. And by the way, this is an
economy that is looking forward. So we
saw the same thing in tariffs. As soon
as the administration said 90-day pause,
markets started pricing that in. As soon
as we heard the term ceasefire in the
Iranian crisis, markets started pricing
that in. So if you wait for 100%
certainty, um you probably would have
missed some of this move. What kind of
future can you look ahead to though?
This is uh the key question. Is it one
driven by AI productivity gains that are
monopolized by all of the semiconductor
companies and the hyperscalers or is
this a world where you start to see a
broadening out where you can see the
real economy play a little bit into this
narrative?
>> You know, we're hopeful that it's the
latter. Uh we do think the initial move
and this is usually how it works with a
new um technology and new technology
cycle. Uh the initial move is by the
infrastructure players of that
technology. So think about
semiconductors, think about uh parts of
the data center buildout that we're
already seeing a tremendous move in.
Over time, we should see the
beneficiaries of those productivity
gains um start to see some gains as
well. So we continue to like areas like
industrials, areas like wellcom services
that can continue to benefit from uh
productivity spreading. Now I'll also
say broadly from a market cap
perspective, we like large and midcap.
From a regional perspective, we like US
and emerging markets, which could be an
alternative to technology in the US as
well. So, different ways to play this
over time.
>> I've been thinking about something since
earlier this morning, so bear with me.
But someone was mentioning how profit
margins have been 20%. Uh they've been
the highest they've been in a very long
time. You've seen incredible uh profit
expansion at the beaest of productivity,
but you've seen the actual employment
figures decline, if anything. Is that a
feature or a bug? Right? I mean, is it
essentially that you're seeing these
profit margins increase at the expense
of jobs or is this setting up for a jobs
boom?
>> Yeah, you know, look, I think thus far
any uh softness in the labor market has
not really been attributed to AI. Maybe
the potential of AI ultimately taking
some jobs, but layoff figures, you can
actually look at the survey data, only 5
to 8% of companies are pointing to AI as
a reason for layoffs. So we're not
seeing AI as a reason for pulling back
in the jobs market. What we are seeing
in the labor market is less supply and
less demand overall. So supply driven by
immigration reform, driven by an aging
population, lower supply in the US of
labor. Uh but on the other hand, we're
not seeing as robust of demand for labor
across corporations uh thus far. So
that's what's keeping this unemployment
rate steady at 4.3%. We wouldn't call it
a robust labor market because wage gains
haven't picked up in a meaningful way
either. So, we're not seeing that wage
price spiral kick in as well.
>> Mon, could pick up your point about how
you like parts of EM because EM right
now for me when I look at them, they're
these economies that are really dealing
with spikes when it comes to the energy
crisis way more than we're dealing with
it in the United States.
>> Yeah, absolutely. You know, look, I
think um really the the part of the
world that is dealing directly with the
spikes is probably Europe, maybe parts
of Asia to your point. Uh but that is
more international developed and and not
as much. I I think EM has the benefit of
the not only the productivity gains but
the AI technology boom behind it and
over time I think if we continue to see
a dollar weakening environment we could
see EM gain some momentum as well. So
probably more cautious on international
develop for to that point but more um
more favorable on EM.
>> You're very constructive on what's going
on with the conflict if it lasts the
rest of the year. Do you have to start
to rethink some of this? Yeah, you know,
I think certainly this conflict will
take some time to resolve and I think
we've all talked about even if it
resolves in the next couple weeks, it
will take some time for this trade to
open, for oil prices to mitigate, for
the supply to come back on board, we we
know that environment is probably there
for the next 6 to 12 months. Um, but to
the point that markets are looking
beyond that, what's the environment
going to be like 12 to 18 months when
we're sitting here? um could actually
oil supply. We know prior to the crisis
we were a little overs supplied globally
in oil. We know that economies are
looking to build their buffers. We know
that you know countries like the UAA
have left OPEC so there's more supply
potentially coming from that region. Uh
could we be in an environment where we
get back to over supply and the strait
is clearing up and we get back to global
oil flows. Um so could we be in an
environment we're back at you know $60
to $70? There is a possibility of that
especially when you look longer term.
Can we finish on EM? What does liking EM
mean?
>> What does it mean to sound like EM? Do
you like, I don't know, TSMC?
>> Yeah.
>> Samsung, SKH Highix, three, four, five
companies. What does it mean to like EM
in 2026?
>> Yeah. So, from our perspective, we like
Msei, EM, uh, emerging markets index.
And so, probably not at the company
specific level, but several of those
that you mentioned have done
phenomenally well.
>> They've got massive weightings in that
index.
>> Yes. And you know, interestingly, China
itself has come down in the MseM index
is awaiting. Taiwan has moved higher. So
there's an offset there. Uh but
certainly this this is an ecosystem that
has been front and center in the
semiconductor buildout and the AI capex
spend buildout. And we think over time
the growing consumer base in those
economies will be beneficiaries of the
productivity gains as well.
>> Man, good to see you as always. Great to
catch up in person. Man, there of Edward
Jones on the equity market. Used to meet
something else. It used to be almost
exclusively you'd see that fast money in
and out of EM. It would be based on US
rates, the US dollar and now it's almost
exclusively a tech trade.
>> Well, it used to be cyclical. Now it's
secular and that's the shift. And so
when people talk about EM, they're
talking about the secular shift that's
really led the rally in the US
regardless of some of the economic
pressures because it is all tied to AI.
>> Futures this morning on the S&P up by
0.7% with an update on stories
worldwide. With your Bloomberg brief,
Yahara has more. Hey Yahara.
>> Hi John. Just in the last hour, Iran
condemning US attacks on Iranian vessels
in the straight of Hormuz as a violation
of the ceasefire. Iran semi-official
Tazning news agency also saying the
Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps shut
down a US drone and fired at an American
fighter jets in Iranian airspace.
We are seeing Eli Lily shares a rising
1% in the pre-market after the farmer
giant agreed to buy three vaccine
developers in deals worth nearly $4
billion. The company is using the
windfall from its blockbuster obesity
drugs to push deeper into the infectious
disease prevention market. And in
sports, if you haven't heard, the Knicks
are heading back to the NBA finals for
the first time since 1999. New York
sweeping the Cleveland Cavaliers in
their 11th straight playoff win. They'll
be taking on either Oklahoma City or San
Antonio in the finals, which tip off on
June 3rd. That's your Bloomberg brief,
John.
>> Very cool, Yahara. Thank you. Appreciate
it. Up next, we'll get you some morning
calls. Plus, Amanda Linham of Goldman
Sachs seeing further opportunities
within private credit. That conversation
just around the corner live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
There's a lot of nervousness. Um, and
there are a lot of jobs that do seem
like they are trending towards we need
less of them. What is long been thought
in sort of this last generation as a
solid kind of entrylevel white collar
job is disappearing.
>> That was Sarah Kun at Cleo Capital a
little bit earlier on this morning on
the great debate in the labor market and
AI's impact still to come. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 got into the open
in about 1 hour and about 13 minutes
away, bouncing back by 0.7% on the S&P
500, adding to a 3day winning streak.
Could become day four on the NASDAQ up
by 1 percentage point and just a little
bit of our performance again on a small
caps following this move in the bond
market. Twos 10 30s, yields pulling
back, twos down by six, 10's down by
seven. Queuing off this in the commodity
market, WTI of Friday's close lower by
some 4% encouraged by the headlines over
the weekend. But if you look at Brent,
Brent bouncing back from yesterday's
close, discouraged by some of the
headlines overnight. So if you've taken
a nice long 3-day weekend, it's back to
where we were before. Some serious
doubts about just exactly where we are
in the Middle East.
>> Totally following all of that and I'm
really paying attention because
ultimately it will dictate future
action. Emory, I know that you've been
following the ins and outs of this. I
just still find it remarkable that
people are trading off of it because
ultimately we have no concept. I mean
there was a whole meme unleashed about
95% done over the weekend which I was
there for.
>> Right. So it sounds better than where we
were on Friday but it certainly doesn't
look better than where these two
countries were on Friday because since
Friday we now have active strikes in the
region on top of the Iranians going
after United States aircraft and planes.
So it doesn't look very good even though
the president is trying to wish cast or
hope cast this deal into existence.
>> I think for markets it's a single issue
negotiation reopen the straight. I think
for the actual negotiation it's a single
issue negotiation. It's about the
uranium which will lead to reopening the
straight if we can agree on that. We
can't agree on the uranium right now. So
never mind 95% done. If the 5% the
uranium as far as I'm concerned we're
100% not done. That's the issue. Well,
the issue is if you're 9 95% done, but
you haven't reestablished exactly what
Iran's control is going to be over the
street, exactly how you're going to
secure it, whether they're going to get
fees, and you're dealing with uranium,
and the idea that they can't decide.
Isn't that exactly why we went to war in
the first place? So, you know, it's a
reason why people are are kind of
struggling with how close we actually
are.
>> Welcome back.
>> Thank you.
>> From the long weekend, equity to
positive, stocks are close to alltime
highs. There you go. That's the equity
market. Let's get some more Nico. First
up, Bank of America raising its price
target on Apple to 380, saying it should
have meaningful leverage in an AI
agentic world. The stock is up by 6.
Your second call from UBS tripling its
price target on Micron to 1625, citing
long-term memory supply deals that could
lock in pricing. And finally, Piper
Sandler raising its price target on
Apollo to 157, saying it's one of the
best positioned companies in the
alternative space. That stock is up
marginally in the pre-market. Elsewhere,
private credit managers looking to
offload troubled assets. Sourc is
telling us here at Bloomberg, a number
of business developers are looking to
trim software exposure. Amanda Linham of
Goldman Sachs writing, "We believe
private credit's role in the financing
ecosystem remains intact and expect to
see expanded deployment opportunities."
Amanda joins us now for more. Amanda,
good morning. Good to see you.
>> Thank you for having me.
>> Do you think that BDC's have unfairly
shaped the narrative for this whole
universe so far this year? I I think
you're hitting on a great point which is
I feel like the market's focus and I
think this is an appropriate shift has
moved from the redemption pressures in
the retail market which is about 15% of
AUM on the most conservative calculation
um and it's now pivoted to actually what
also matters for liquid credit which is
the risk of a slowdown in the economy
and the disruption potential in the
software space and so what we see from
the first quarter data actually is a
continuation of the trend that we've
been noting which is dispersion but not
widespread market disruption. And you
had mentioned kind of the strong risk
tone, earnings, trend like growth.
That's all a pretty supportive cocktail
for credit risk, both liquid and
private. But I do think it's appropriate
that the market has kind of
compartmentalized the redemption
pressures in retail, which we expect to
continue by the way. The next redemption
activity window will open in June. Um,
but I think that's a bit of a known no
at this point.
>> Well, can we just stay on BDC's and
software? BDC's as a total universe.
you've just indicated very small
>> software within that quite large
depending on which particular vehicle
you're looking at for the whole universe
are they all just loans to software
companies give us an idea of the numbers
involved here
>> so a lot of the loans that BDC's hold
are also held within institutional
portfolios so the BDC's are a good proxy
for the broader corporate credit market
you are correct the software on average
across the private credit market is
around 25% of total uh assets now some
managers flex lower than that some flex
higher I think the debate that we are
having at the moment though is um really
emphasizing this should probably be a
nuanced conversation around software.
For example, we're seeing different
price performance in vertically
integrated software companies versus
horizontal. Our equity analysts who
cover the space have made the point that
a lot of these incumbent players won't
stand still uh and allow their
businesses to be disrupted. So I think
that's the lens with which we're going
into it. Not that different from the
energy disruption or the retail
disruption. There will be winners and
losers. uh but even if you apply a
pretty draconian outcome to the software
exposure uh both in terms of defaults
and recoveries in the context of the
income generation of the asset class in
our view it's not a systemic risk to the
financial system it's just a driver of
dispersion the other point I will
mention is that certain vintages like
2021 and 2022 that were formed in a low
rate environment and before AI was
really on investors radar to the extent
it is now are especially vulnerable
>> at this point there's a bigger takeaway
and this is what some people are saying
which is there was a reach for yield
given how much money was coming into
private credit and you could see that
maybe most uh prominently in the BDC
space but on a broader level it doesn't
make private credit as attractive as
being more liquid even if you're picking
up less income do you agree with that
type of philosophy which we're hearing
more from a lot of investors
>> I think it's shifting a bit um we've
seen spreads widen around 25 basis
points since the end of 2025 we're
seeing covenants uh really do stay
intact I would say especially given the
recent disruption that we've had. Look,
these alternative asset classes, they eb
and flow in terms of dynamic interest. I
actually think right now private
infrastructure, private real estate is
really kind of in in the in the sun in
terms of funding data centers and um
just the significant capital need there.
Uh private credit really benefited from
a period of time when the Fed was hiking
rates, the ECB was hiking rates. We're
no longer in that environment really.
And so I I think there's a there's a a
relative value trade-off. That being
said, if you are an investor looking at
credit, uh, private credit, the one
thing that has remained consistent is
private credit is offering you
additional spread compensation, not for
higher risk, but for the ili liquidity
premia, basically reflecting the fact
that these private credit lenders don't
sell out of this exposure. Um, so I
would say our conversations with
institutional investors are actually
looking for ways to deploy in this
space. The one thing that's different
though is they're looking to deploy in
areas for example like distressed
special situations and opportunistic
lending as opposed to the kind of senior
direct lending which had been um to your
point the the focus for the past few
years.
>> Does distress exist?
>> Uh it I mean there there for sure is dry
powder on the sidelines across all of
these strategies. I think what you're
hitting on is a point that a lot of
distressed investors have been waiting
for a distress cycle really since 2022,
right? Because there was a there was a
view that there would be an imminent
recession in the US and in Europe years
ago. Um, but I I do think go kind of
going back to John's point on software.
If there's an issue in software, it's
not going to be isolated to private
credit because actually what we didn't
talk about is the broadly syndicated
leverage loans largest industry weight
is also software. Um, so if there's an
issue with software, it's going to be an
issue across multiple pockets of the of
the credit market. In that sort of
scenario, private credit likely steps in
to deploy because they do have the
patient capital, which is a competitive
advantage. We've seen multiple periods
where the broadly syndicated loan market
kind of seizes and riskoff periods
doesn't operate like we wish it would
kind of pulls back from lending. That
would be the opportunity in our view for
private credit to step in. So I think
it's just private credit's role in the
financial ecosystem is largely intact in
our view. It's just the mix shift of
growth has pivoted more towards
institutional kind of more towards
special situations opportunistic less in
retail and less in direct lending.
>> Smart framing Amanda it's good to see
you. Thank you Amanda Lam there of
Goldman Sachs. Remember that moment in
the pandemic? Distressed investors got
very excited. This was the moment. It
was the moment. The Fed had other ideas.
It was not the moment. We moved on very
quickly.
>> It was a moment. It was about 6 hours.
And if you wanted to get in on it, it
wasn't going to be in the debt markets
because there was no debt transacting
because everybody was so excited about
this moment to buy that nobody sold. And
in the stock market, you saw a dip. And
quickly, if you bought that dip, well,
congratulations.
>> Crazy how things turned out. The fears
people had and how things ultimately
turned out. This is though underpinning
a lot of the bullishness. You're seeing
this in credit and you're seeing this in
equities. Nobody wants to miss the dip.
So there hasn't been a dip.
>> Coming up on the program, we'll catch up
with Greg Dov of EY Pathon and whether
the Walsh Fed's first rate move could be
a hike. Plus, Danny has your morning
movers. Autozone's third quarter sales
falling short of estimates. That stock
is down by 5% in early trading.
60 minutes away from the cash open.
Looking at a 4-day climb on the S&P 500,
4-day winner streak following an 8week
winning run on the S&P on the NASDAQ
this morning by more than 1%. Queing off
this in the bond market. Yields lower
across the curve, particularly at the
front end, and we'll spend some time on
that. The prospect of rate hikes and all
of that in just a moment. Two-year
yields are down by six basis points,
just north of 4%. Let's get you some
single names, some morning movers with
more. Danny Burgerer joins us. Hey,
Danny.
>> Hey, John. Autozone reporting earnings
this morning, and they missed on their
third quarter comparable sales. The
executives over there specifically
pointing out their Mexico and
international sales that stayed more or
less constant than they were uh the
prior quarter. So, shares down five and
a third of 1%. Also looking at the ADRs
of BP this morning, losing a chair over
serious concerns of his conduct
according to the company there. This is
a company that's gone through, I
believe, four CEOs and three chairs in
the past six years. So a lot of churn in
this particular chair, Alfred Manifold
was only there since last July. Shares
fall 5.6%.
Finally, Micron to the upside. A lot of
things happening here. Semi is rallying.
Uh Huawei coming out with new technology
that maybe increases the use of chips.
Uh you also have the president
specifically calling out Micron uh at a
rally on Friday for all the spending and
investment they're doing in the US and
UBS raising their price target to over
$1,000 for Micron. Before it was $500
something dollars. So more than $200%
price target increase for Micron though
shares up about 7 and 3/4 of 1%. John,
>> crazy. Just absolutely crazy. Danny,
thank you. These analysts just can't
keep up which is unusual. Usually it's,
you know, they're being aggressively
bullish relative to where the stock is,
but they don't seem to be able to keep
up with the earning story as some of
these names.
>> Yeah. Especially when it comes to
semiconductors given the fact that they
can charge pretty much anything and all
of the companies that are buying them,
namely hyperscalers, feel like it's an
existential risk. How much have they
increased their capex simply because the
cost had increased by the likes of some
of these semiconductors? Well, guess
who's winning that money? It's the
semiconductors. And that's what we saw
in earnings.
>> It's rare to say analysts haven't been
bullish enough, right? Because typically
you bring up the ANR page on a Bloomberg
terminal and it's just a sea of buys
along most names.
>> Given that I wonder if they're going to
miss the turn given the fact that they
are all going to be preconditioned by
missing the upside, how much they are
going to be preconditioned to miss the
downside at some point because you're
going to have to imagine there's going
to be pricing pressure unless we see
true productivity start to filter into
the rest of the market.
>> It's a good point for the equity market
right now. All-time highs close to those
levels on the S&P 500. for the bond
market yields pull him back just a touch
as the Federal Reserve chair Kevin Walsh
is pledging to modernize the central
bank while defending its independence.
>> I will lead a reform oriented Federal
Reserve learning from past successes and
mistakes both.
>> I want Kevin to be totally independent.
I want him to be independent and just do
a great job. Walsh facing increasing
odds of higher for longer interest rates
as investors ramp up bets the Fed stays
on hold and maybe considers hiking.
Michael McKe joins us now for more.
Mike, things are building and they're
building going into that June rate
decision.
>> Absolutely. Now, uh this is perhaps
Kevin Worsh's first day in the office.
You know, after that nice ceremony at
the White House, take your family out to
lunch, go to one of your houses for the
long Memorial Day weekend. his term as
Fed chair, four years now, but his term
as governor, 14 years. So, John, maybe
one of your children someday will be uh
questioning whether or not Kevin Worsh
is going to resign with a new chairman
in place. His first job is clean up on
aisle 2. Uh the price stability mandate
is the second in the list, and there is
no price stability right now. So, he's
got to get to work right away on PCE
inflation before they can even think
about cutting interest rates. We will
get more information on that today with
the Pu not today, but with uh this week
in terms of what's going on because we
get the PCE inflation numbers on
Thursday. Consumer confidence today will
be interesting. Alltime low in Michigan
last week. We'll see what the conference
board comes up with. Uh a lot of other
secondary tertiary indicators. Uh but we
do get some really interesting
information uh towards the week's end.
And then you know if you're Kevin Wars,
you're sitting there wondering where
everybody is on your first day. Lot of
Fed speak this week. Nobody in town.
Qashqari is in Tokyo today. Uh Logan,
Jefferson, and Goulsby tomorrow. Lisa
Cooks out in Stanford, California.
Williams and Malam are in Reikovic on
Thursday. Uh Tom Barkin who's from
Richmond will be in Washington. He's the
only one. Uh Mary Daly speaking out in
California. Some more Reikovic uh New
Jersey. And then on Sunday, Chris Waller
is in Croatia. Uh the chairs in his
office, but uh nobody else is home. He
may feel a little bit lonely uh this
week as he gets to work trying to figure
out ways to convince everybody to vote
for those rate cuts and make the changes
he wants. We'll have a young governor
pharaoh on that list in no time. 2040
maybe 2040 something. Michael, thank
you. Appreciate it. Never seen Michael
McKe so downbeat about Fedsp speak
before.
>> Yeah, in
>> gone in Iceland apparently.
>> Well, I mean I understand why they would
want to give a speech at Rekovic. Highly
recommend.
>> Sounded pretty good though. I mean
Tokyo.
>> I was about to say the world tour, but
you know.
>> Yeah, Mike should have gotten on the
list.
>> Probably the kind of thing that Chair
Walsh is going to push back on. What are
you doing in Iceland?
>> Talking about US monetary policy. I
mean, honestly, the geysers are amazing
and and truth be told, it's really
beautiful. It's great. Gorgeous,
gorgeous scenery.
>> Should we go?
>> Sure. I think that we should
>> next time. Let's get the interviews
lined up. Let's
>> We could talk about monetary policy.
>> We'll take Greg Do with us of EY Pathon
and he's got this to say. Wash faces a
challenging backdrop. Our expectation
remains that the Fed will stay on hold
throughout the rest of the year, but we
would not be surprised to hear some
policy makers suggest a rate hike. Greg
joins us now for more. Greg, we're
getting closer, but as you know, this
institution moves very slowly. What do
you think the next step is at the June
meeting?
>> I think the next step is to include a
dual-sided statement that says that
essentially rate hikes are on the table
should inflation prove more persistent.
And you're already starting to hear some
policy makers voice that very theme,
that narrative that should inflation
prove more persistent than what has been
expected, then they would consider a
rate hike as a possibility to bring down
inflation and at least prevent the risk
of inflation becoming more entrenched.
>> Certainly feels like the center of the
committee is close to that, if not there
already. Then we start to think about
thresholds. Give me an idea of what it
would take to actually deliver that rate
hike once you slip into a more neutral
kind of forward guidance.
>> So our baseline right now is that
inflation will surpass 4% on a PCE
basis. Uh and that we're going to see
some core inflation pass through from
these higher prices via food prices.
That's not the core, but via higher food
prices, but also transportation cost,
production costs that will lead to
higher core inflationary pressures. By
the end of the year, we're still
expecting core PCE to be around 3%. That
would be a threshold that I think is
very key to watch because if inflation
is indeed one percentage point above the
2% target that the Fed has, there is
going to be much more noise around the
necessity of a rate hike, especially if
that trend is moving sideways and not
moving back towards the target. Remember
when we were at the end of the the
tariff impulse uh which was the case
earlier this year, we were seeing
inflation still moving towards the 2%
target, but there were some core
services metrics that were still moving
sideways and that was the hesitation for
further easing of monetary policy.
Policy makers wanted to see more
movement towards 2%. If we are at the
end of this year still around 3% when it
comes to core inflation, that's going to
be the point at which some policy makers
will be voicing the need for tighter
monetary policy. Do you do you think
that with hindsight the 175 basis points
of rate cuts that the Fed did over the
past couple of years was too much?
>> No, I think the Fed was right to ease
monetary policy because we had
underlying inflation that was moving
back towards the 2% target and we saw
growing downside risk when it came to
the labor market. So the combo of the
two goals moving in the right direction
were essentially this notion that the
Fed could have eased monetary policy. I
would I was actually arguing a few
months ago that we could have continued
to ease monetary policy back towards 3%.
The key narrative right now and the key
new development is the fact that we have
higher inflationary uh pressures coming
from the Middle East conflict and this
is something that was not expected back
in January February. So it is a new
narrative that we're currently facing
and policymakers have to adapt to that
>> and so they should treat this as largely
a shock a transitory shock that
essentially will sort of fizzle out as
the conflict is resolved at least
according to the argument. You hear
people like Bill Dudley saying there's
something else here you've got to pay
attention to, which is that maybe we are
not at neutral. Maybe we're not above
neutral. Maybe we're below neutral. And
you're seeing other uh strategists and
former Fed members saying the same thing
based on what we're seeing with
corporate earnings, based on what we're
seeing with people still able to buy
things even at higher prices. What's
your push back to that? I think in
general when we're looking at the
economy, we have this economy that is
strong on the surface but fragile in
terms of the narrow breadth of growth.
And that is really important to consider
because when you think about the
inflationary pressures that are
currently building, the risk is that
we're seeing a layered environment of
supply shocks where supply shocks are
hitting one after the other. And in that
type of environment, there's a risk of
more inflation persistence. And that is
really testing the cost of growth, the
price of growth, which is eroding
economic momentum. And so in terms of
the neutral rate, and where we are
relative to the neutral rate, I think
we're still in a moderately restrictive
monetary policy stance when it comes to
the long run. But when it comes to the
short run, because of all these supply
shocks, we're increasingly at an
environment where monetary policy is
easier than it appears to be. And that
is why the Fed, I think, should be
considering potentially tightening
monetary policy or at least signaling
the potential to tighten monetary policy
should there be more inflation
persistence.
>> Do you think we could see Fed Chair
Walsh descent, a chair descent in his
own meetings?
>> I think that's very possible. Uh it's
something that hasn't been done since
the 1930s, but I think it's very
possible because we have a greater
fragmentation amongst policy makers. We
have a large share of policy makers, a
vast majority per the FOMC minutes of
the April meeting, a vast majority that
considers rate tightening as a potential
next move for the Fed. And in that
environment where Kevin Walsh is indeed
supportive of easier monetary policy
because he's expecting AI investment to
deliver strong productivity growth and
ease inflationary pressures. He believes
the Fed should be accommodative today.
That's not what most policy makers,
especially regional Fed policy makers
and some governors are thinking about.
They're much more focused on the today,
on the here and now of inflation being
above the 2% target and moving in the
wrong direction. I think the movement is
very important.
>> I've got to ask you this. If you did see
Chair Walsh descent against the bulk of
the committee, how would Governor Pal
vote?
>> I think he would vote with his mind and
with his heart. You don't think he'd
vote alongside Chair Walsh just to keep
a low profile?
>> Perhaps, but the reality is that Powell
is much more concerned about the
institutional credibility of the Fed.
And in that regard, he's going to be
very much focused on the two objectives,
inflation and maximum employment. And if
there are indications that inflation is
moving further away from the 2% target
while the employment side of the mandate
is still relatively stable even if in
appearance he would actually consider
tightening monetary policy or at least
moving towards a more hawkish bias. So I
don't think he would necessarily just
follow Kevin Worsh in every decision to
not make any noise. He's going to be
voting as to what he believes is the be
in the best interest of the US economy.
>> Looks like he'll be making noise
regardless whether he likes it or not.
Greg, thank you. Appreciate it. Greg
Deco there of EY Pathon. Can you imagine
if it plays out in that particular
fashion what that would look like? What
kind of signal would that send?
>> You know, if everybody voted to hike
rates and we did not get that from Chair
Wars, that I think alone would be a
pretty big signal. And then if you had
of course this question of Governor
Powell voting alongside the rest of the
committee, then the conversation will be
Kevin Worsh lost control over uh the
Fed. Kevin Worsh is a Fed chair in name
only but not in private.
>> Which is why dissenting, if the chairman
chooses to descent, the optics of that
would just be atrocious for the chairman
by the way.
>> Well, not just that, but also because
Kevin Worsh was one of the most hawkish
members of the Fed board when he was
back on it back in uh the 2000s. So, you
start to wonder who would this person
be? I mean, again, will the real Kevin
Worsh please stand up?
>> Of course, a lot of speculation here.
We've got no idea. I I imagine June's
going to be very boring after all of
this. Just be very boring. Slip into
neutral.
>> Yeah, I don't think so.
>> Keep the news conference really short.
You think so? Five questions.
>> Honestly, the way that he does that,
that will be analyzed, scrutinized.
>> You think about capping questions?
>> No, I'm just saying, you know,
>> make it super short.
>> Yeah, I don't think so. I think
>> Who says he has to take like 20
questions in the news conference and the
think has to last 60 minutes? Who says
he can keep it short if he wants to?
>> He could change it.
>> Don't give him ideas. Yeah,
>> I'm sure he's got his own ideas on the
matter. Let's give you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Yahara has more. Hey
yhara.
>> Hi John. The head of the World Health
Organization is visiting the Ebola hits
Democratic Republic of Congo today as
fears grow over a wider regional
outbreak. The number of confirmed deaths
in the country has now topped 200.
China is restricting overseas travel for
top AI professionals at firms such as
Alibaba and Deepseek. The move escalates
efforts to safeguard strategic
technology and close the gap with the US
on artificial intelligence
and we are seeing BP shares trading
lower in London after the company
removed chairman Albert Manifold
effective immediately. BP says the
decision was tied to serious concerns
over governance oversight and conduct
but the company did not provide specific
details. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John,
>> so much churn at that company. So much
churn. I think that's rattled a lot of
investors. Yahara, thank you. Up next on
the program, we'll set you up for the
day ahead. Plus, we'll catch up with
Richard Bernstein of Janice Henderson
Investors on why he's sticking with a
boring portfolio. Not quite the best
tease, but he'll tell you why in a
moment. From New York City, you're
watching Blimbo TV.
The case for cutting rates now is
actually very very weak. We've been
above the Fed's inflation target for
five more than 5 years and there is a
risk that inflation expectations do
finally become unanchored. The Fed is is
concerned that they're they're starting
to lose credibility because they haven't
been able to get inflation back down to
2%.
>> Bill Dudley, former New York Fed
president, just hit pause just for a
moment. Took three hours. Took 3 hours.
Converted brammo. Okay. no longer
supporting the new Ferrari. What's the
position now?
>> I think that the orange one looks okay.
Look, you made me look at one versus the
other.
>> The Ferrari Amalfi.
>> The the Ferrari Amalfi versus
>> a real Ferrari,
>> you know, one of these. And it just
>> the epitome of design.
>> It doesn't it she just wants to look a
little bit like a car that
>> she can't hold this line.
>> A kid would have just pulled back. It
looks very basic, but it might be really
good for Johnny Ives, right? because it
sort of is reminiscent of the Apple
designs but not necessarily Ferrari's
designs but it might have a great
engine.
>> I remember getting to a traffic stop in
Sa Paulo. Taxi pulls up, stops, car to
the right of me pulls up to the side.
Father gets out with his child, walks
towards the showroom holding his hand
just to look through the window at the
Ferraris. That's the pull that brand
has. the epitome of design, aspiration,
ambition, even for people who wouldn't
be able to dream of ever buying one.
That's what a Ferrari should be. That
thing that Ives has designed as a
standalone vehicle, judge it as a
standalone vehicle. As a Ferrari,
I'm sorry, but the bar is like up here
and it falls way short of deserving that
badge. If people are just joining now,
earlier when I was trying to defend uh
this car, John said that he put me in a
bucket with cut spaghetti as well as
cappuccinos after lunch, which gives you
a sense, you know, and ketchup on pizza.
>> I will not put that in there because
it's disgusting.
>> And then called the luch the loose. So
there we go. It's been the last 3 hours
as we count down to the opening bell.
Here's your trading diary. The week
ahead better than this 10:00 a.m.
Eastern time. Conference board consumer
confidence in focus after you was rock
bottom on Friday. Looking ahead to
Salesforce earnings on Wednesday,
Thursday, Core PC, Durable Goods and
another round of claims, plus Costco
earnings. Look out for Costco and a
couple of other retailers. I believe
Best Buy in the mix as well. Stocks
extended gains this morning ahead of the
opening bound. Richard Bernstein of
Janice Henderson investors writing, "It
seems clear that we're in some sort of
highly speculative environment. We are
sticking with our theme of boring is
beautiful." Richard joins us now for
more. Richard, welcome back to the
program. Congratulations by the way on
the acquisition to Janice as well.
Welcome sir. Let's talk about boring is
beautiful. What is boring
>> in 2026? What is that?
>> So John, what's boring is basically
almost everything out there that people
don't want to look at. I mean I would
argue that the range of potential
investments is maybe historically broad.
Uh but people have no interest in in
this broad kind of normal capital
formation investing. Everybody's
speculating and the quote you had for me
was referring to that people are having
trouble differentiating between the
financial markets and the prediction
markets and that's ridiculous. That
shows how speculative an environment
we're in.
>> You talk about short duration
investments and focusing on just the
higher quality within fixed income which
is notable right now given the fact that
a lot of people are talking about
inflation as the big risk. Inflation is
not boring. It tends to wreak havoc
through a whole series of stocks and
pick winners and losers. How do you deal
with the inflation risk? How much of
that is underpinning some of your boring
thesis?
>> Right. So, so Lisa, I think that people
have focused too much on the near-term
cyclical inflation issues. You know,
even your previous guest talked about
the war a little bit. I think people are
still missing the secular backdrop,
which is very inflationary relative to
history. I don't mean like there's going
to be 8% inflation, but I would argue
vehemently that the Fed's 2% inflation
target is very antiquated or they've got
a lot of inflation fighting to do. They
have a weird choice they got to do here.
And the the reason why is simply
deglobalization
and and deglobalization is inherently
inflationary because we're reducing
competition and as you reduce
competition you get upward pressure on
prices. So in you want short duration
whether it's short duration fixed income
or short duration equities because as
inflation pipes up you need more cash
flow upfront to meet your spending
needs. People have forgotten about that
in such an extended period of
disinflation. So we think that's very
very important is those near-term cash
flows.
>> Does that make stocks better than bonds?
Because a lot of people have been
talking about stocks as an inflation
hedge. Do you buy that narrative?
>> So, I think um dividend paying stocks,
yes, I would I would I would agree that
dividend paying stocks are very
attractive. I'm not sure long duration
growth stocks are all that attractive in
a higher inflation environment. Um, and
in the fixed income world, I I hate to
say this is like heresy to say what I'm
about to say, but in the, you know,
during inflationary periods, cash does
really well. Now, does that mean you
have to go to cash? No. But there's lots
of things what I like to call cash plus
which are you know short-term high
quality whether that's um treasuries,
mortgages, securitized there's this
whole universe of very shortterm cash
plus type investments.
>> Richard, I want to ask you what we think
of prediction markets because you talk
about on your note how speculative is
the environment when you say basically
and you're correct. You sometimes can't
tell the difference between what's going
on prediction markets and the stock
market.
>> Right. So, Amory, I think that people
have totally lost the point of what the
financial markets are all about. The
financial markets serve an economic
purpose to build capital formation,
right? Companies can raise capital, they
can then expand plant and equipment,
they can expand employment, but it's
it's real investment in the economy. So,
the financial markets are there to spur
real investment in the economy. The
prediction mortgages have no economic
value added whatsoever, right? They're
basically saying, "Oh, something
happened. That's good." And you win. So,
I don't quite understand how one could
bet get this one. That the Knicks are
going to beat the Cavs, right? I guess
that paid off pretty well. But that that
has some economic value in in the
economy.
>> When there are binary things though that
people are betting on, is there
information in where that money is
going, Richard, to apply to how you'd
approach equity markets?
Well, I I think that's there's there's
an information content perhaps. I mean,
I don't think I think that there was
certainly some academic studies on
limited uh prediction markets and and
what would happen and do they tell more
than than is there information content
in those prediction markets. I think the
answer to that from an academic
perspective was certainly yes. But now
we have so many prediction markets and
there's also questions I think
legitimate questions about whether
they're fair or not. Does this does it
really give you the information content
that people believe? I'm not so sure
about that.
>> Richard, appreciate your take as always.
We'll see you in person next time. Thank
you, sir. Richard Bernstein there now
with Janice Henderson. Investors on
prediction markets at the end there and
the the shortfalls when thinking about
financial markets.
>> Yeah, there are a lot of people who are
saying that potentially uh they are
increasingly more detrimental than they
are beneficial in part because it also
is training a new generation of
investors to essentially just gamble.
And what we see in day-to-day market act
activity is becoming more like gambling.
Are they going to open? Are they going
to close? Do we even know what that
means? Doesn't matter. Open, close,
open, close. Is that really going to
ignite the interest of a lot of
portfolio managers that have three, four
month horizons? Probably not. And that's
what you hear every morning.
>> Also, I think what we've seen at least
in Washington DC is a lot of concern. I
mean, the White House even had to send
out a note reminding people not to make
sure they're using some information uh
that they're hearing in the likes of the
prediction markets. It's been harder to
track down who potentially is going on
the prediction markets with information
that is not known to the public.
>> Who's got an edge and who doesn't right
now? We're done this morning. That was
fun, wasn't it?
>> We're done with Ferrari for the week,
right?
>> No,
>> that's No, we are.
>> No more. Not tomorrow. We're done. We're
absolutely done. Oh, tomorrow she'll be
clutching her Nick mug again. That was
literally through the whole show
occasionally. We just feel like
>> just to show everybody.
>> Just so you guys know, during her
commentary she was just once the show
started cuz I keep refreshing. Tickets
have gone up. I'm glad you're focused.
>> What's the What's the get in price?
>> It's closer to 4K now. And you're
talking nose bleeds again. Anyone out
there?
>> We don't accept tickets, but maybe we do
kind of.
>> All right. From New York City this
morning, good morning. Thank you for
choosing Bloomberg TV. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance, and we'll see
you tomorrow morning.